Skip to main contentThe Muse LogoA logo with &quat;the muse&quat; in dark blue
text.

  * Jobs
    * Account Management
    * Accounting and Finance
    * Administration and Office
    * Advertising and Marketing
    * Arts
    * Business Operations
    * Computer and IT
    * Customer Service
    * Data and Analytics
    * Design and UX
    * Education
    * Healthcare
    * Human Resources and Recruitment
    * Management
    * Media, PR, and Communications
    * Product Management
    * Project Management
    * Sales
    * Software Engineering
    * Writing and Editing
    * View All Jobs 
  * Companies

  * Advice

  * Coaching

  * Employers

Sign In

  * Saved Companies
  * Account Settings
  * Sign Out

  * Job Search
    * Finding a Job
    * Resumes
    * Resume Examples
    * Cover Letters
    * Networking
    * Interviewing
    * Job Offer
    * View all in Job Search >
  * Career Paths
    * Exploring Careers
    * Careers in Data and Analytics
    * Careers in Finance
    * Careers in Marketing
    * Careers in Sales
    * Careers in Software Engineering
    * Career Stories
    * Career Change
    * Training and Development
    * View all in Career Paths >
  * Succeeding at Work
    * Work and COVID-19
    * Productivity
    * Getting Ahead
    * Work Relationships
    * Work-Life Balance
    * Working Parents
    * Remote Work
    * Money
    * Changing Jobs
    * Management
    * Break Room
    * View all in Succeeding at Work >
  * Diversity and Inclusion
    * Anti-Racism at Work
    * LGBTQ at Work
    * Disability and Work
    * Gender and Work
    * View all in Diversity and Inclusion >
  * More
    * Videos
    * Job Search Videos
    * Career Advice Videos
    * Career Story Videos
    * Company Spotlight Videos
    * Industry Spotlight Videos
    * Employer Resources
    * 

Advice / Job Search / Interviewing

# Your 2023 Guide to the Most Common Interview Questions and Answers

by

The Muse Editors

Updated

1/4/2023

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmail

Bailey Zelena; courtneyk/Getty Images

Wouldn’t it be great if you knew exactly what questions a hiring manager would
be asking you in your next job interview?

We can’t read minds, unfortunately, but we’ll give you the next best thing: a
list of 50 of the most commonly asked interview questions, along with advice
for answering them all.  

While we don’t recommend having a canned response for every interview question
(in fact, please don’t), we _do_ recommend spending some time getting
comfortable with what you might be asked, what hiring managers are really
looking for in your responses, and what it takes to show that you’re the right
person for the job.

Consider this list your interview question and answer study guide. (And don’t
miss our bonus list at the end, with links out to resources on specific types
of interview questions—about emotional intelligence or diversity and
inclusion, for example—and interview questions by role, from accountant to
project manager to teacher.)

## 50+ most common job interview questions

  * Tell me about yourself.
  * Walk me through your resume.
  * How did you hear about this position?
  * Why do you want to work at this company?
  * Why do you want this job?
  * Why should we hire you?
  * What can you bring to the company?
  * What are your greatest strengths?
  * What do you consider to be your weaknesses?
  * What is your greatest professional achievement?
  * Tell me about a challenge or conflict you’ve faced at work, and how you dealt with it.
  * Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership skills.
  * What’s a time you disagreed with a decision that was made at work?
  * Tell me about a time you made a mistake.
  * Tell me about a time you failed.
  * Why are you leaving your current job?
  * Why were you fired?
  * Why was there a gap in your employment?
  * Can you explain why you changed career paths?
  * What’s your current salary?
  * What do you like least about your job?
  * What are you looking for in a new position?
  * What type of work environment do you prefer?
  * What’s your work style?
  * What’s your management style?
  * How would your boss and coworkers describe you?
  * How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?
  * What do you like to do outside of work?
  * Are you planning on having children?
  * How do you stay organized?
  * How do you prioritize your work?
  * What are you passionate about?
  * What motivates you?
  * What are your pet peeves?
  * How do you like to be managed?
  * Do you consider yourself successful?
  * Where do you see yourself in five years?
  * How do you plan to achieve your career goals?
  * What are your career aspirations?
  * What’s your dream job?
  * What other companies are you interviewing with?
  * What makes you unique?
  * What should I know that’s not on your resume?
  * What would your first few months look like in this role?
  * What are your salary expectations?
  * What do you think we could do better or differently?
  * When can you start?
  * Are you willing to relocate?
  * How many tennis balls can you fit into a limousine?
  * If you were an animal, which one would you want to be?
  * Sell me this pen.
  * Is there anything else you’d like us to know?
  * Do you have any questions for us?

## 1\.

Tell me about yourself.

This question seems simple, so many people fail to prepare for it, but it’s
crucial. Here's the deal: Don’t give your complete employment (or personal)
history. Instead, give a pitch—one that’s concise and compelling and that
shows exactly why you’re the right fit for the job. Muse writer and MIT career
counselor Lily Zhang recommends using a present, past, future formula. Talk a
little bit about your current role (including the scope and perhaps one big
accomplishment), then give some background as to how you got there and
experience you have that’s relevant. Finally, segue into why you want—and
would be perfect for—this role.

### **Possible answer to “Tell me about yourself.”**

“ _Well, I’m currently an account executive at Smith, where I handle our top-
performing client. Before that, I worked at an agency where I was on three
different major national healthcare brands. And while I really enjoyed the
work that I did, I’d love the chance to dig in much deeper with one specific
healthcare company, which is why I’m so excited about this opportunity with
Metro Health Center.”_

**_Read More:_** _A Complete Guide to Answering “Tell Me About Yourself” in an
Interview (Plus Examples!)_

## 2\.

Walk me through your resume.

Like “Tell me about yourself,” this question is a common interview opener. But
instead of framing your answer around what qualities and skills make you best
for the position, your answer should group your qualifications by your past
jobs and tell your career story. You might choose to tell this story
chronologically, especially if there’s a great anecdote about what set you on
this path. Or, as with “Tell me about yourself,” you can begin with your
present job then talk about what brought you here and where you’re going next.
But regardless, when you speak about your “past” and “present,” highlight your
most relevant experiences and accomplishments for _this_ job and wrap up by
talking about the future, i.e. connect your past and present together to show
why this job should be the next one you add to your resume.

### **Possible answer to “Walk me through your resume.”**

_“Well, as you can see from my resume, I took a bit of a winding road to get
to where I am today. In college, I double majored in chemistry and
communications. I found early on that working in a lab all day wasn’t for me
and at some point I realized I looked forward to the lab class I TA’ed the
most._

_“So when I graduated, I found a job in sales for a consumer healthcare
products company, where I drew on my teaching experience and learned even more
about tailoring your message and explaining complex health concepts to people
without a science background. Then, I moved into a sales training role at a
massive company where I was responsible for teaching recent graduates the
basics of selling. My trainees on average had more deals closed in their first
quarter than any of the other trainers’ cohorts. Plus, I got so much
satisfaction from finding the right way to train each new hire and watching
them progress and succeed. It reminded me of my time as a TA in college.
That’s when I started taking night classes to earn my chemistry teaching
certificate._

_“I left my full-time job last year to complete my student teaching at P.S.
118 in Manhattan, and over the summer, I worked for a science camp, teaching
kids from the ages of 10 to 12 about basic chemistry concepts and best
practices for safe experiments. Now, I’m excited to find my first full-time
teaching job, and your district is my top choice. The low student-to-teacher
ratio will let me take the time to teach each student in the best way for
them—which is my favorite part of the job.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Respond to “Walk Me Through Your Resume”—and Get Your
Interview Started on the Right Note_

## 3\.

How did you hear about this position?

Another seemingly innocuous interview question, this is actually a perfect
opportunity to stand out and show your passion for and connection to the
company. For example, if you found out about the gig through a friend or
professional contact, name-drop that person, then share why you were so
excited about the job. If you discovered the company through an event or
article, share that. Even if you found the listing through a random job board,
share what, specifically, caught your eye about the role. ****

### ****Possible answer to “How did you hear about this position?”****

  _“I heard about an opening on the product team through a friend of a friend,
Akiko, and since I’m a big fan of your work and have been following you for a
while I decided it would be a great role for me to apply for.”  
  
_ ** _Read More:_** _3 Ways People Mess Up the (Simple) Answer to “How Did You
Come Across This Job Opportunity?”_

## 4\.

Why do you want to work at this company?

Beware of generic answers! If what you say can apply to a whole slew of other
companies, or if your response makes you sound like every other candidate,
you’re missing an opportunity to stand out. Zhang recommends one of four
strategies: Do your research and point to something that makes the company
unique that really appeals to you; talk about how you’ve watched the company
grow and change since you first heard of it; focus on the organization’s
opportunities for future growth and how you can contribute to it; or share
what’s gotten you excited from your interactions with employees so far.
Whichever route you choose, make sure to be specific. And if you can’t figure
out why you’d want to work at the company you’re interviewing with by the time
you’re well into the hiring process? It might be a red flag telling you that
this position is not the right fit.

### **Possible answer to “Why do you want to work at this company?”**

_“I saw on_ The Muse _that you were also hiring for new positions on the West
Coast to support your new operations there. I did some more reading about the
new data center you’re building there and that excites me as I know this means
there’ll be opportunities to train new teammates. I also learned through a_
Wall Street Journal _article that you’re expanding in Mexico as well. I speak
Spanish fluently and would be eager to step up and help liaise whenever
necessary.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Better Ways to Answer “Why Do You Want to Work at This
Company?”_

## 5\.

Why do you want this job?

Again, companies want to hire people who are passionate about the job, so you
should have a great answer about why you want the position. (And if you don’t?
You probably should apply elsewhere.) First, identify a couple of key factors
that make the role a great fit for you (e.g., “I love customer support because
I love the constant human interaction and the satisfaction that comes from
helping someone solve a problem”), then share why you love the company (e.g.,
“I’ve always been passionate about education, and I think you’re doing great
things, so I want to be a part of it”).

### **Possible answer to “Why do you want this job?”**

_“I’ve always been a fan of X Co’s products and I’ve spent countless hours
playing your games. I know that your focus on unique stories is what drew me
and other fans into your games initially and keeps us coming back for more.
I’ve followed X Co on social media for a while, and I’ve always loved how you
have people in different departments interact with users. So I was psyched
when I came across this posting for a social media manager with TikTok
experience. At my last job, I was responsible for launching our TikTok account
and growing it to 10,000 followers in six months. Between that experience, my
love of gaming, and my deep knowledge of your games and fanbase, I know I
could make this TikTok account something special and exciting.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Steps for Answering “Why Do You Want This Job?”_

## 6\.

Why should we hire you?

This interview question seems forward (not to mention intimidating!), but if
you’re asked it, you’re in luck: There’s no better setup for you to sell
yourself and your skills to the hiring manager. Your job here is to craft an
answer that covers three things: that you can not only do the work, but also
deliver great results; that you’ll really fit in with the team and culture;
and that you’d be a better hire than any of the other candidates.

### **Possible answer to “Why should we hire you?”**

“ _I know it’s been an exciting time for General Tech—growing so much and
acquiring several startups—but I also know from experience that it can be
challenging for the sales team to understand how new products fit in with the
existing ones. It’s always easier to sell the product you know, so the newer
stuff can get shortchanged, which can have company-wide ramifications. I have
over a decade of experience as a sales trainer, but more importantly, most of
those years were working with sales teams that were in the exact same boat Gen
Tech is in now. Growth is wonderful, but only if the rest of the company can
keep up. I’m confident I can make sure your sales team is confident and
enthusiastic about selling new products by implementing an ongoing sales
training curriculum that emphasizes where they sit in a product lineup.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Better Ways to Answer “Why Should We Hire You?”_

## 7\.

What can you bring to the company?

When interviewers ask this question, they don’t just want to hear about your
background. They want to see that you understand what problems and challenges
they’re facing as a company or department as well as how you’ll fit into the
existing organization. Read the job description closely, do your research on
the company, and make sure you pay attention in your early round interviews to
understand any issues you’re being hired to solve. Then, the key is to connect
your skills and experiences to what the company needs and share an example
that shows how you’ve done similar or transferable work in the past.

### **Possible answer to “What can you bring to the company?”**

_“As Jocelyn talked about in our interview earlier, PopCo is looking to expand
its market to small business owners with less than 25 employees, so I’d bring
my expertise in this area and my experience in guiding a sales team that’s
selling to these customers for the first time. In most of my past roles, this
segment has been my focus and in my current role, I also played a big part in
creating our sales strategies when the business began selling to these
customers. I worked with my managers to develop the sales script. I also
listened in on a number of sales calls with other account execs who were
selling to these customers for the first time and gave them pointers and other
feedback. In the first quarter, our 10-person sales team closed 50 new
bookings in this segment, and I personally closed 10 of those deals. I helped
guide my last company through the expansion into small businesses, and I’m
eager to do that again at PopCo. Plus, I noticed you have a monthly karaoke
night—so I’m eager to bring my rendition of ‘Call Me Maybe’ to the team as
well.”_

**_Read More_** _:_ _What Interviewers Really Want to Hear When They Ask “What
Can You Bring to the Company?”_

## 8\.

What are your greatest strengths?

Here’s an opening to talk about something that makes you great—and a great fit
for this role. When you’re answering this question, think quality, not
quantity. In other words, don’t rattle off a list of adjectives. Instead, pick
one or a few (depending on the question) specific qualities that are relevant
to this position and illustrate them with examples. Stories are always more
memorable than generalizations. And if there’s something you were hoping to
mention because it makes you a great candidate, but you haven’t had a chance
yet, this would be the perfect time.

### **Possible answer to “What are your greatest strengths?”**

“ _I’d say one of my greatest strengths is bringing organization to hectic
environments and implementing processes to make everyone’s lives easier. In my
current role as an executive assistant to a CEO, I created new processes for
pretty much everything, from scheduling meetings to planning monthly all hands
agendas to preparing for event appearances. Everyone in the company knew how
things worked and how long they would take, and the structures helped
alleviate stress and set expectations on all sides. I’d be excited to bring
that same approach to an operations manager role at a startup, where
everything is new and constantly growing and could use just the right amount
of structure to keep things running smoothly.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Smart Strategies for Answering “What's Your Greatest
Strength?”_

## 9\.

What do you consider to be your weaknesses?

What your interviewer is really trying to do with this question—beyond
identifying any major red flags—is to gauge your self-awareness and honesty.
So, “I can’t meet a deadline to save my life” is not an option—but neither is
“Nothing! I’m perfect!” Strike a balance by thinking of something that you
struggle with but that you’re working to improve. For example, maybe you’ve
never been strong at public speaking, but you’ve recently volunteered to run
meetings to help you get more comfortable when addressing a crowd.

### **Possible answer to “What do you consider to be your weaknesses?”**

_“It can be difficult for me to gauge when the people I’m working with are
overwhelmed or dissatisfied with their workloads. To ensure that I’m not
asking too much or too little from my team, we have weekly check-ins. I like
to ask if they feel like they’re on top of their workload, how I could better
support them, whether there’s anything they’d like to take on or get rid of,
and if they’re engaged by what they’re doing. Even if the answer is ‘all
good,’ these meetings really lay the groundwork for a good and trusting
relationship.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Ways to Answer “What Is Your Greatest Weakness?” That
Actually Sound Believable_

## 10\.

What is your greatest professional achievement?

Nothing says “hire me” better than a track record of achieving amazing results
in past jobs, so don’t be shy when answering this interview question! A great
way to do so is by using the STAR method: situation, task, action, results.
Set up the situation and the task that you were required to complete to
provide the interviewer with background context (e.g., “In my last job as a
junior analyst, it was my role to manage the invoicing process”), then
describe what you did (the action) and what you achieved (the result): “In one
month, I streamlined the process, which saved my group 10 person-hours each
month and reduced errors on invoices by 25%.”

### **Possible answer to “What is your greatest professional achievement?”**

_“My greatest accomplishment was when I helped the street lighting company I
worked for convince the small town of Bend, Oregon to convert antiquated
street lighting to energy-efficient LED bulbs. My role was created to promote
and sell the energy-efficient bulbs, while touting the long-term advantage of
reduced energy costs. I had to develop a way to educate city light officials
on the value of our energy-efficient bulbs—which was a challenge since our
products had an expensive up-front cost compared to less efficient lighting
options. I created an information packet and held local community events aimed
at city officials and the tax-paying public. There, I was able to demo the
company product, answer questions, and evangelize the value of LED bulbs for
the long term. It was crucial to have the public on board and I was able to
reach a wide variety of community members with these events. I not only
reached my first-year sales goal of $100,000, but I was also able to help us
land another contract in a neighboring city. Plus, the community-focused
strategy garnered attention from the national media. And I’m proud to say I
got a promotion within one year to senior sales representative.”_

**_Read More:_** _The Perfect Formula for Answering “What Is Your Greatest
Accomplishment” in an Interview_

## 11\.

Tell me about a challenge or conflict you’ve faced at work, and how you dealt
with it.

You’re probably not eager to talk about conflicts you’ve had at work during a
job interview. But if you’re asked directly, don’t pretend you’ve never had
one. Be honest about a difficult situation you’ve faced (but without going
into the kind of detail you’d share venting to a friend). “Most people who ask
are only looking for evidence that you’re willing to face these kinds of
issues head-on and make a sincere attempt at coming to a resolution,” former
recruiter Richard Moy says. Stay calm and professional as you tell the story
(and answer any follow-up questions), spend more time talking about the
resolution than the conflict, and mention what you’d do differently next time
to show “you’re open to learning from tough experiences.”

### **Possible answer to “Tell me about a challenge or conflict you’ve faced
at work, and how you dealt with it.”**

“ _Funnily enough, last year I was part of a committee that put together a
training on conflict intervention in the workplace and the amount of pushback
we got for requiring attendance really put our training to the test. There was
one senior staff member in particular who seemed adamant. It took some careful
listening to understand he felt like it wasn’t the best use of his time given
the workload he was juggling. I made sure to acknowledge his concern. And then
I focused on his direct objection and explained how the training was meant to
improve not just the culture of the company, but also the efficiency at which
we operated—and that the goal was for the training to make everyone’s workload
feel lighter. He did eventually attend and was there when I talked to the
whole staff about identifying the root issue of a conflict and addressing that
directly without bringing in other issues, which is how I aim to handle any
disagreement in the workplace.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Ways You’re Messing Up the Answer to “Tell Me About a
Conflict You’ve Faced at Work”_

## 12\.

Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership skills.

You don’t have to have a fancy title to act like a leader or demonstrate
leadership skills. Think about a time when you headed up a project, took the
initiative to propose an alternate process, or helped motivate your team to
get something done. Then use the STAR method to tell your interviewer a story,
giving enough detail to paint a picture (but not so much that you start
rambling) and making sure you spell out the result. In other words, be clear
about why you’re telling this particular story and connect all the dots for
the interviewer.

### **Possible answer to “Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership
skills.”**

_“I think that a good leader is someone who can make decisions while also
listening to others and being willing to admit when you’re wrong and course
correct. In my last role, my team and I were responsible for giving a big
presentation to a prospective client. I quickly assigned different tasks to
members of my team, but the project never really got moving. I gave everyone
an opportunity to share their input and concerns, and it turned out that they
were struggling in the roles I’d given them. I ended up switching a few people
around. Meanwhile, the employee I’d assigned to give the presentation was
nervous, but still wanted to give it a try. I worked with them to make sure
they were ready and even held a practice session so that they could rehearse
in a more comfortable environment. When the time came for the real thing, they
nailed it! We landed the client and the company still has the account to this
day. And that employee became a go-to person for important client
presentations. I’m really glad I took the time to listen to everyone’s
concerns so that I could re-evaluate my approach and help my team be the best
it could be.”_

**_Read More:_** _The Best Way to Answer “Tell Me About a Time You
Demonstrated Leadership Skills” in a Job Interview_

## 13\.

What’s a time you disagreed with a decision that was made at work?

The ideal anecdote here is one where you handled a disagreement professionally
and learned something from the experience. Zhang recommends paying particular
attention to how you start and end your response. To open, make a short
statement to frame the rest of your answer, one that nods at the ultimate
takeaway or the reason you’re telling this story. For example: “I learned
early on in my professional career that it’s fine to disagree if you can back
up your hunches with data.” And to close strong, you can either give a one-
sentence summary of your answer (“In short…”) or talk briefly about how what
you learned or gained from this experience would help you in the role you’re
interviewing for.

### **Possible answer to “What’s a time you disagreed with a decision that was
made at work?”**

_“In my job as a finance assistant, I was in charge of putting together
reports for potential company investments. It was important to get the details
and numbers right so that leaders had the best information to make a decision.
One time, my boss asked me to generate a new report on a Wednesday morning and
wanted it done by Thursday at 5 PM. Because I’m committed to high-quality work
and I wasn’t sure my boss fully understood what goes into each report, I knew
I needed to speak up. At her next available opening, I sat down with my boss
and explained my concerns. She was firm that the report would be completed by
Thursday at 5 PM. So I decided to ask if there was anyone who could help out.
After thinking about it, my boss found another assistant who could put in a
few hours. While it was a tight timeline, we got the report done, and the
committee was really pleased to review it at the meeting. My boss appreciated
my extra efforts to make it happen and I felt good that I hadn’t let the
quality of the report slip. It was a good experience of being a team player
but also knowing when and how to ask for help. And once I explained how much
time and work goes into each report, my boss was careful to assign them
further in advance.”_

**_Read More:_** _Here’s the Secret to Answering “Tell Me About a Time You Had
a Conflict With Your Boss” in an Interview_

## 14\.

Tell me about a time you made a mistake.

You’re probably not too eager to dig into past blunders when you’re trying to
impress an interviewer and land a job. But talking about a mistake and winning
someone over aren’t mutually exclusive, Moy says. In fact, if you do it right,
it can _help_ you. The key is to be honest without placing blame on other
people, then explain what you learned from your mistake and what actions you
took to ensure it didn’t happen again. At the end of the day, employers are
looking for folks who are self-aware, can take feedback, and care about doing
better.

### **Possible answer to “Tell me about a time you made a mistake.”**

_“Early in my career, I missed a deadline that ended up costing us a really
big account. There were a lot of factors that contributed to this, but
ultimately, I was the one who dropped the ball. From that experience, I went
back and thought really hard about what I could’ve controlled and what I
would’ve changed. It turns out that I was not nearly as organized as I thought
I was. I sat down with my boss, asked for suggestions on how to improve my
organizational skills, and a few months later I was able to score an even
bigger account for the department.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Rules That Guarantee You'll Nail the Answer to “Tell Me
About a Time You Made a Mistake”_

## 15\.

Tell me about a time you failed.

This question is very similar to the one about making a mistake, and you
should approach your answer in much the same way. Make sure you pick a real,
actual failure you can speak honestly about. Start by making it clear to the
interviewer how you define failure. For instance: “As a manager, I consider it
a failure whenever I’m caught by surprise. I strive to know what’s going on
with my team and their work.” Then situate your story in relation to that
definition and explain what happened. Finally, don’t forget to share what you
learned. It’s OK to fail—everyone does sometimes—but it’s important to show
that you took something from the experience.

### **Possible answer to “Tell me about a time you failed.”**

“ _As a team manager, I consider it a failure if I don’t know what’s going on
with my staff and their work—basically if a problem catches me by surprise
then I’ve failed somewhere along the way. Even if the outcome is ultimately
fine, it means I’ve left a team member unsupported at some point. A somewhat
recent example would be this training we do every year for new project
managers. Because it’s an event that my team has run so many times, I didn’t
think to check in and had no idea a scheduling conflict was brewing into a
full-on turf war with another team. The resolution actually ended up being a
quick and easy conversation at the leadership team meeting, but had I just
asked about it sooner it would never have been a problem to begin with. I
definitely learned my lesson about setting reminders to check in about major
projects or events even if they’ve been done dozens of times before.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Steps for Answering “Tell Me About a Time When You
Failed”_

## 16\.

Why are you leaving your current job?

This is a toughie, but one you can be sure you’ll be asked. Definitely keep
things positive—you have nothing to gain by being negative about your current
employer. Instead, frame things in a way that shows that you’re eager to take
on new opportunities and that the role you’re interviewing for is a better fit
for you. For example, “I’d really love to be part of product development from
beginning to end, and I know I’d have that opportunity here.” And if you were
let go from your most recent job? Keep it simple: “Unfortunately, I was let
go,” is a totally acceptable answer.

### **Possible answer to “Why are you leaving your current job?”**

_“I’m ready for the next challenge in my career. I loved the people I worked
with and the projects I worked on, but at some point I realized I wasn’t being
challenged the way I used to be. Rather than let myself get too comfortable, I
decided to pursue a position where I can continue to grow.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Better Ways to Answer “Why Are You Leaving Your Job?”_

## 17\.

Why were you fired?

Of course, they may ask the follow-up question: _Why_ were you let go? If you
lost your job due to layoffs, you can simply say, “The company
[reorganized/merged/was acquired] and unfortunately my [position/department]
was eliminated.” But what if you were fired for performance reasons? Your best
bet is to be honest (the job-seeking world is small, after all). But it
doesn’t have to be a deal breaker. Frame it as a learning experience: Share
how you’ve grown and how you approach your job and life now as a result. And
if you can portray your growth as an advantage for this next job, even better.

### **Possible answer to “Why were you fired?”**

_“After working for XYZ Inc. for four years, there were some changes made to
the amount of client calls we were expected to process per hour. I used the
techniques we were taught after the change took effect, but didn’t want our
customer service to slip. Unfortunately, I wasn’t consistently completing the
required number of calls, and, as a result, I was let go. I felt really bad
about this and in retrospect I could have done better sticking to the process
that would have let me meet the per hour quota. But you’ve told me about the
customer service standards and the volume expectations here, and I believe it
won’t be a problem.”_

**_Read More:_** _Stop Cringing! How to Tell an Interviewer You've Been Fired_

## 18\.

Why was there a gap in your employment?

Maybe you were taking care of children or aging parents, dealing with health
issues, or traveling the world. Maybe it just took you a long time to land the
right job. Whatever the reason, you should be prepared to discuss the gap (or
gaps) on your resume. Seriously, practice saying your answer out loud. The key
is to be honest, though that doesn’t mean you have to share more details than
you’re comfortable with. If there are skills or qualities you honed or gained
in your time away from the workforce—whether through volunteer work, running a
home, or responding to a personal crisis—you can also talk about how those
would help you excel in this role.

### **Possible answer to “Why was there a gap in your employment?”**

_“I spent a number of years working at a company in a very demanding job, in
which—as you’ll see from my references—I was very successful. But I’d reached
a stage in my career where I wanted to focus on my personal growth. The time I
spent traveling taught me a lot about how to get along with people of all ages
and cultures. Now I feel more than ready to jump back into my career with
renewed energy and focus and I feel this role is the ideal way to do that.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Explain the Gap in Your Resume With Ease_

## 19\.

Can you explain why you changed career paths?

Don’t be thrown off by this question—just take a deep breath and explain to
the hiring manager why you’ve made the career decisions you have. More
importantly, give a few examples of how your past experience is transferable
to the new role. This doesn’t have to be a direct connection; in fact, it’s
often more impressive when a candidate can show how seemingly irrelevant
experience is very relevant to the role.

### **Possible answer to “Can you explain why you changed career paths?”**

_“Ever since my brother was diagnosed with a heart condition, I’ve been
training and running with him in your annual Heart Run to raise money for your
organization and help support patients with expenses not covered by insurance.
Each time, I’ve been struck by how truly dedicated and happy to be there your
employees have been. So when I saw this posting for a fundraising role, it
felt like it was meant to be. For the last 10 years of my career I’ve been an
account executive for various SaaS companies, and I’ve really honed my skills
when it comes to convincing organizations to make regular payments for
something over the long-term. But I’ve been looking for a position in
fundraising where I can use these skills to really help people and I’m highly
motivated to do that with your organization.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Explain Your Winding Career Path to a Hiring Manager_

## 20\.

What’s your current salary?

It’s now illegal for some or all employers to ask you about your salary
history in several cities and states, including New York City; Louisville,
North Carolina; California; and Massachusetts. But no matter where you live,
it can be stressful to hear this question. Don’t panic—there are several
possible strategies you can turn to. For example, you can deflect the
question, Muse career coach Emily Liou says, with a response like: “Before
discussing any salary, I’d really like to learn more about what this role
entails. I’ve done a lot of research on [Company] and I am certain if it’s the
right fit, we’ll be able to agree on a number that’s fair and competitive to
both parties.” You can also reframe the question around your salary
expectations or requirements (see question 38) or choose to share the number
if you think it will work in your favor.

### **Possible answer to “What’s your current salary?”**

_“Before discussing any salary, I’d really like to learn more about what this
role entails. I’ve done a lot of research on [Company] and I am certain if
it’s the right fit, we’ll be able to agree on a number that’s fair and
competitive to both parties.”_

**_Read More:_** _Here's How You Answer the Illegal “What's Your Current
Salary” Question_

## 21\.

What do you like least about your job?

Tread carefully here! The last thing you want to do is let your answer devolve
into a rant about how terrible your current company is or how much you hate
your boss or that one coworker. The easiest way to handle this question with
poise is to focus on an opportunity the role you’re interviewing for offers
that your current job doesn’t. You can keep the conversation positive and
emphasize why you’re so excited about the job.

### **Possible answer to “What do you like least about your job?”**

_“In my current role, I’m responsible for drafting media lists to pitch. While
I’ve developed a knack for this and can do it when it is necessary, I’m
looking forward to a job that allows me to have a more hands-on role in
working with media partners. That’s one of the things that most excited me
about your account supervisor position.”_

**_Read More:_** _What Interviewers Really Want When They Ask, “What Do You
Like Least About Your Job?”_

## 22\.

What are you looking for in a new position?

Hint: Ideally the same things that this position has to offer. Be specific.

### **Possible answer to “What are you looking for in a new position?”**

_“I’ve been honing my data analysis skills for a few years now and, first and
foremost, I’m looking for a position where I can continue to exercise those
skills. Another thing that’s important to me is the chance to present my
findings and suggestions directly to clients. I’m always very motivated by
being able to see the impact of my work on other people. And I’m definitely
looking for a position where I can grow since I hope to take on managerial
responsibilities in the future. To sum it up, I’d love a position where I can
use my skills to make an impact that I can see with my own eyes. Of course,
the position is only part of the equation. Being at a company where I can grow
and work toward something I care about matters, too. DNF’s goal of being at
the intersection between data and education inspires me, and I’m really
excited about this opportunity.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Steps for Answering “What Are You Looking for in a New
Position?”_

## 23\.

What type of work environment do you prefer?

Hint: Ideally one that's similar to the environment of the company you're
applying to. Be specific.

### **Possible answer to “What type of work environment do you prefer?”**

_“I really like the environment in my current position. My manager is a great
resource and always willing to help out when I run into an issue, but they
trust me to get my work done so I have a lot of freedom in how I schedule and
prioritize, which is very important to me. Everyone has their own cubicle, so
it’s often pretty quiet to get our work done, but we all get lunch together
and our team has a lot of check-in meetings and communicates frequently via
Slack so we still get a lot of opportunities to bounce ideas off each other.
So I like both individual and more collaborative work. How would you describe
the mix here?”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Steps to Answering “What Type of Work Environment Do You
Prefer?”_

## 24\.

What’s your work style?

When an interviewer asks you about your work style, they’re probably trying to
imagine you in the role. How will you approach your work? What will it be like
to work with you? Will you mesh well with the existing team? You can help them
along by choosing to focus on something that’s important to you _and_ aligns
with everything you’ve learned about the role, team, and company so far. The
question is broad, which means you have a lot of flexibility in how you
answer: You might talk about how you communicate and collaborate on cross-
functional projects, what kind of remote work setup allows you to be most
productive, or how you approach leading a team and managing direct reports.
Just try to keep it positive. And remember, telling a story will almost always
make your answer more memorable.

### **Possible answer to “What’s your work style?”**

_“I tend to do my best work when I’m collaborating with colleagues and we’re
working together toward a common goal. I was that rare student who loved group
projects and now I still get a rush of excitement when I’m planning marketing
campaigns with a team and bringing new and different voices into the fold.
When I was working at XYZ Agency, I made it a habit to extend invitations to
folks in different departments to join certain brainstorming and feedback
sessions. Some of our most successful campaigns grew out of the ideas we
generated together with coworkers in IT, HR, product, and customer success.
That’s why I was so excited to learn that this role would have me working
closely with the product and sales teams as well as with a talented marketing
team. The other thing I find is crucial to making these collaborations
successful is organization and documentation, so I’m also really big on
creating one central home for all materials related to a project, including
meeting notes, action items, drafts of campaign copy and visuals, and
timelines.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “What Is Your Work Style?” in an Interview
(Plus Examples!)_

## 25\.

What’s your management style?

The best managers are strong but flexible, and that’s exactly what you want to
show off in your answer. (Think something like, “While every situation and
every team member requires a bit of a different strategy, I tend to approach
my employee relationships as a coach...”) Then share a couple of your best
managerial moments, like when you grew your team from five to 15 or coached an
underperforming employee to become the company’s top salesperson.

### **Possible answer to “What’s your management style?”**

“ _Management style is so hard to put your finger on, but I think in general a
good manager gives clear directions and actually stays pretty hands-off, but
is ready and available to jump in to offer guidance, expertise, and help when
needed. I try my best to make that my management style. I also go out of my
way to make sure I know when my team needs help. That means plenty of informal
check-ins, both on the work they’re doing and on their general job
satisfaction and mental well-being. I remember one project in particular at my
most recent position that involved everyone working on a separate aspect of
the product. This meant a lot of independent work for my team of seven people,
but rather than bog everyone down with repetitive meetings to update me and
everyone else on progress made, I created a project wiki that allowed us to
communicate new information when necessary without disrupting another team
member’s work. I then made it my job to make sure no one was ever stuck on a
problem too long without a sounding board. Ultimately, despite the disparate
project responsibilities, we ended up with a very cohesive product and, more
importantly, a team that wasn’t burnt out.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “What’s Your Management Style?”_

## 26\.

How would your boss and coworkers describe you?

First, be honest (remember, if you make it to the final round, the hiring
manager will be calling your former bosses and coworkers for references!).
Then try to pull out strengths and traits you haven’t discussed in other
aspects of the interview, such as your strong work ethic or your willingness
to pitch in on other projects when needed.

### **Possible answer to “How would your boss and coworkers describe you?”**

_“Actually, in my most recent performance review in April, my direct
supervisor described me as someone who takes initiative and doesn’t shy away
from hard problems. My role involves a lot of on-site implementation, and when
things go wrong, it’s usually up to me to fix it. Rather than punting the
problem back to the team, I always try to do what I can first. I know she
appreciates that about me.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Strategies for Answering “How Would Your Boss or Coworkers
Describe You?”_

## 27\.

How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?

Here’s another question you may feel the urge to sidestep in an effort to
prove you’re the perfect candidate who can handle anything. But it’s important
not to dismiss this one (i.e. don’t say, “I just put my head down and push
through it,” or, “I don’t get stressed out”). Instead, talk about your go-to
strategies for dealing with stress (whether it’s meditating for 10 minutes
every day or making sure you go for a run or keeping a super-detailed to-do
list) and how you communicate and otherwise proactively try to mitigate
pressure. If you can give a real example of a stressful situation you
navigated successfully, all the better.

### **Possible answer to “How do you deal with pressure or stressful
situations?”**

_“I stay motivated by thinking about the end result. I’ve found that even in
the midst of a challenging situation, reminding myself of my goals helps me
take a step back and stay positive.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Ways You’re Messing Up the Answer to “How Do You Deal With
Stressful Situations?”_

## 28\.

What do you like to do outside of work?

Interviewers will sometimes ask about your hobbies or interests outside of
work in order to get to know you a little better—to find out what you’re
passionate about and devote time to during your off-hours. It’s another chance
to let your personality shine. Be honest, but keep it professional and be
mindful of answers that might make it sound like you’re going to spend _all_
your time focusing on something other than the job you’re applying for.

### **Possible answer to “What do you like to do outside of work?”**

_“I’m a huge foodie. My friends and I love trying new restaurants in town as
soon as they open—the more unusual the better! I love discovering new foods
and cuisines, and it’s also a great activity to share with friends. I try to
go out with the same group at least once a week and it’s a fun way to make
sure we keep in touch and share experiences even when we’re busy with other
things. We even took a trip to New York City and spent each day in a different
neighborhood, buying something to share from a few restaurants.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “What Are Your Hobbies?” in an Interview (It’s
Not a Trick Question!)_

## 29\.

Are you planning on having children?

Questions about your family status, gender (“How would you handle managing a
team of all men?”), nationality (“Where were you born?”), religion, or age are
illegal—but they still get asked (and frequently). Of course, not always with
ill intent—the interviewer might just be trying to make conversation and might
not realize these are off-limits—but you should definitely tie any questions
about your personal life (or anything else you think might be inappropriate)
back to the job at hand.

### **Possible answer to “Are you planning on having children?”**

_“You know, I’m not quite there yet. But I am very interested in the career
paths at your company. Can you tell me more about that?”_

**_Read More:_** _5 Illegal Interview Questions and How to Dodge Them_

## 30\.

How do you stay organized?

Would you want to work with a hot mess? Yeah, we didn’t think so. Neither does
anyone else. A disorganized worker doesn’t just struggle in their own role,
they can also create chaos for peers, managers, direct reports, clients,
customers, and anyone else they interact with. So interviewers will often ask
about how you keep yourself organized to make sure you’d be able to handle the
workload and gauge what you’d be like to work with. In your answer, you’ll
want to reassure them you’d have things under control (both in what you say
and how you say it), describe a specific system or method you’ve used (bonus
points if you can tie it to the role you’re interviewing for), and explain how
it benefited you and your team. Just make sure your answer is succinct and,
well, organized.

### **Possible answer to “How do you stay organized?”**

_“I take pride in my ability to stay organized, and it’s really come in handy
in my past roles and especially the social media assistant job I’m in now.
First, I keep a really meticulous calendar for each of the platforms I’m
responsible for using Hootsuite—which I noticed you use here as well—and I try
to block off time twice a week to get ahead on creating and slotting in posts.
_

_“_ _Second, I’m a big fan of Trello, where I have one personal board I use as
a to-do list color-coded by type of task and marked with priority level and
one shared marketing team board that we use to coordinate campaigns launching
across social, email, and other channels. We pay very close attention to the
news in case we need to pause a campaign. If needed, I’d tag all the relevant
stakeholders on Trello, immediately suspend all scheduled content in
Hootsuite, and start a discussion on Slack or suggest a meeting to reassess
strategy._

_“Finally, I created a shared folder on Google Drive with subfolders by
campaign that I update with one-pagers on goals and strategies, assets, a
record of the actual posts deployed, performance analyses, and retros. That
way, there’s a go-to place for anyone on the team to refer back to past
projects, which I’ve found really helps us learn from every campaign and
incorporate those learnings into what we’re working on next.”_

**_Read More:_** _What Interviewers Really Want to Know When They Ask “How Do
You Stay Organized?”_

## 31\.

How do you prioritize your work?

Your interviewers want to know that you can manage your time, exercise
judgement, communicate, and shift gears when needed. Start by talking about
whatever system you’ve found works for you to plan your day or week, whether
it’s a to-do list app you swear by or a color-coded spreadsheet. This is one
where you’ll definitely want to lean on a real-life example. So go on to
describe how you’ve reacted to a last-minute request or another unexpected
shift in priorities in the past, incorporating how you evaluated and decided
what to do and how you communicated with your manager and/or teammates about
it.

### **Possible answer to “How do you prioritize your work?”**

_“I’d be lost without my daily to-do list! At the beginning of each workday, I
write out tasks to complete, and list them from highest to lowest priority to
help keep me on track. But I also realize priorities change unexpectedly. On
one particular day recently, I had planned to spend most of my time making
phone calls to advertising agencies to get price quotes for an upcoming
campaign. Then I did a quick check-in with my manager. She mentioned she
needed help putting together a presentation ASAP for a major potential client.
I moved the more flexible task to the end of the week and spent the next few
hours updating the time-sensitive presentation. I make it a point to keep
lines of communication open with my manager and coworkers. If I’m working on a
task that will take a while to complete, I try to give a heads-up to my team
as soon as possible. If my workload gets to be unmanageable, I check in with
my boss about which items can drop to the bottom of the priority list, and
then I try to reset expectations about different deadlines.”_

**_Read More:_** _A Foolproof Method to Answer the Interview Question “How Do
You Prioritize Your Work?”_

## 32\.

What are you passionate about?

You’re not a robot programmed to do your work and then power down. You’re a
human, and if someone asks you this question in an interview, it’s probably
because they want to get to know you better. The answer can align directly
with the type of work you’d be doing in that role—like if, for example, you’re
applying to be a graphic designer and spend all of your free time creating
illustrations and data visualizations to post on Instagram.

But don’t be afraid to talk about a hobby that’s different from your day-to-
day work. Bonus points if you can “take it one step further and connect how
your passion would make you an excellent candidate for the role you are
applying for,” says Muse career coach Al Dea. Like if you’re a software
developer who loves to bake, you might talk about how the ability to be both
creative and precise informs your approach to code.

### **Possible answer to “What are you passionate about?”**

_“One of my favorite pastimes is knitting—I love being able to create
something beautiful from nothing. Of course, knitting also requires a keen
attention to detail and a lot of patience. Luckily, as an accountant I have
cultivated both of those qualities!”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Authentic Ways to Answer “What Are You Passionate About?”
in a Job Interview_

## 33\.

What motivates you?

Before you panic about answering what feels like a probing existential
question, consider that the interviewer wants to make sure you’re excited
about _this_ role at _this_ company, and that you’ll be motivated to succeed
if they pick you. So think back to what has energized you in previous roles
and pinpoint what made your eyes light up when you read this job description.
Pick one thing, make sure it’s relevant to the role and company you’re
interviewing for, and try to weave in a story to help illustrate your point.
If you’re honest, which you should be, your enthusiasm will be palpable.

### **Possible answer to “What motivates you?”**

_“I’m driven primarily by my desire to learn new things—big or small—and take
on new responsibilities so that I’m constantly growing as an employee and
contributing more to my team and organization. I spent several summers working
as a camp counselor and felt most fulfilled when I volunteered to lead
planning for a talent show, jumped in to help with scheduling logistics, and
learned how to run pickups efficiently. All of that experience helped
immensely when I took a step up to become the lead counselor last year focused
on operations, and that’s what excites me so much about the opportunity to
take on this managerial role for the after-school program.”_

**_Read More:_** _5 Easy Steps to Answer “What Motivates You?” in an
Interview_

## 34\.

What are your pet peeves?

Here’s another one that feels like a minefield. But it’ll be easier to
navigate if you know why an interviewer is asking it. Most likely, they want
to make sure you’ll thrive at their company—and get a glimpse of how you deal
with conflict. So be certain you pick something that doesn’t contradict the
culture and environment at this organization while still being honest. Then
explain why and what you’ve done to address it in the past, doing your best to
stay calm and composed. Since there’s no need to dwell on something that
annoys you, you can keep this response short and sweet.

### **Possible answer to “What are your pet peeves?”**

_“It bothers me when an office’s schedule is really disorganized, because in
my experience, disorganization can cause confusion, which can hurt the
motivation of the team. As a person who likes things to be orderly, I try to
help keep my team on task while also allowing for flexibility.”_

**_Read More:_** _6 Tips for Answering “What Are Your Pet Peeves?” in an
Interview_

## 35\.

How do you like to be managed?

This is another one of those questions that’s about finding the right fit—both
from the company’s perspective and your own. Think back on what worked well
for you in the past and what didn’t. What did previous bosses do that
motivated you and helped you succeed and grow? Pick one or two things to focus
on and always articulate them with a positive framing (even if your preference
comes from an experience where your manager behaved in the opposite way,
phrase it as what you _would_ want a manager to do). If you can give a
positive example from a great boss, it’ll make your answer even stronger.

### **Possible answer to “How do you like to be managed?”**

_“I enjoy having my hands in a lot of different projects, so I like working
with managers who allow their employees to experiment, be independent, and
work cross-functionally with other teams. At the same time, I really welcome
it when a boss provides me with support, guidance, and coaching. No one can do
anything alone, and I believe when managers and employees collaborate together
and learn from one another everyone comes out on top.”_

**_Read More:_** _3 Easy Steps to Answer “How Do You Like to Be Managed?” in
an Interview_

## 36\.

Do you consider yourself successful?

This question might make you uncomfortable. But you can think of it as an
opportunity to allow the interviewer to get to know you better and to position
yourself as an excellent choice for this job. First off, make sure you say
yes! Then pick one specific professional achievement you’re proud of that can
be tied back to the role you’re interviewing for—one that demonstrates a
quality, skill, or experience that would help you excel in this position.
You’ll want to explain _why_ you consider it a success, talk about the process
in addition to the outcome, and highlight your own accomplishment without
forgetting your team. Zooming in on one story will help if you feel awkward
tooting your own horn!

### **Possible answer to “Do you consider yourself successful?”**

_“I do consider myself successful, even though I’m early in my professional
career. I took a full load of classes in my junior year of college because I
wanted to take that summer to volunteer for a human rights organization
overseas. I knew that I needed to make sure I was on track with my major,
minor, and graduation requirements. It was difficult to juggle it all with my
part-time job, which I kept to help account for the fact that I wouldn’t be
earning money over the summer, and there were a few sleepless nights. But it
was worth the hard work: I ended the year with a 3.9 GPA and the opportunity
to volunteer for the agency in Ghana without falling behind my graduation
timeline. For me success is about setting a goal and sticking with it, no
matter how hard it is, and this experience was proof that I could be
successful even when there’s a lot to balance, which I know there always is at
a nonprofit like this one.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “Do You Consider Yourself Successful?” Without
Feeling Like a Show-Off_

## 37\.

Where do you see yourself in five years?

If asked this question, be honest and specific about your future goals, but
consider this: A hiring manager wants to know a) if you've set realistic
expectations for your career, b) if you have ambition (a.k.a., this interview
isn't the first time you’re considering the question), and c) if the position
aligns with your goals and growth. Your best bet is to think realistically
about where this position could take you and answer along those lines. And if
the position isn’t necessarily a one-way ticket to your aspirations? It’s OK
to say that you’re not quite sure what the future holds, but that you see this
experience playing an important role in helping you make that decision.

### **Possible answer to “Where do you see yourself in five years?”**

_“In five years, I’d like to be in a position where I know more about my
longer-term career aspirations as a designer. I will have gotten experience
working for a design agency and know more about the industry overall. I’ll
have grown my technical skills and learned how to take feedback from clients
and incorporate it. And the way your agency is set up, I’ll also have gotten
the opportunity to design different kinds of deliverables—including websites,
branding, and ad campaigns—for different kinds of clients to see where I
really feel at home before settling on a focus.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “Where Do You See Yourself in 5 Years?”_

## 38\.

How do you plan to achieve your career goals?

Having goals shows interviewers you care, are ambitious, and can think ahead.
Having a plan for how you’ll achieve your goals demonstrates your self-
motivation as well as organizational and time management skills. Finally, the
fact that you’ve accomplished past goals you’ve set for yourself is proof of
your ability to follow through. All together, these are indications that you
can not only set and achieve goals of your own, but also help your prospective
boss, team, and company do the same. To craft your answer, make sure you focus
on one or two goals in detail, explain why the goals are meaningful,
communicate what milestones are coming up, highlight past successes, and
connect back to _this_ job.

### **Possible answer to “How do you plan to achieve your career goals?”**

_“My current goal is to earn the CPA license so that I’m fully certified and
prepared to contribute in a junior staff accounting job. My undergraduate
degree is in finance and I completed an accounting internship with XYZ Company
last summer. While I was there, I decided that each week I’d ask one person
from a different team to coffee to learn about their job and career path. Not
only did those conversations impress upon me the importance of getting my CPA
as soon as possible, they also helped me realize I was eager to pursue
forensic accounting, which is why I’m so excited about the opportunity to join
this team. In order to ensure I earn my CPA this year, I enrolled in NASBA
workshops, created a study schedule to keep myself on track, and will be
taking my first trial test in three weeks. I plan on taking the actual test
within the next three to six months.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “How Do You Plan to Achieve Your Career
Goals?” in an Interview_

## 39\.

What are your career aspirations?

Career aspirations are bigger and loftier than career goals. With this
question, interviewers are asking: What kind of career would make you happiest
(while also being realistic)? Your aspirations might revolve around what kind
of company you’d like to work for, what tasks you’d like to do, who you’d like
to help, or how you’d like to be seen by your colleagues. So to answer this
question, talk about what would energize and fulfill you and connect it to the
position you’re interviewing for. Be specific about how this job will help you
achieve your career aspirations.

### **Possible answer to “What are your career aspirations?”**

_“After growing up in a food desert, my biggest professional aspiration is to
help make healthy food more widely available and accessible regardless of
where you live. I also love solving complex problems. Currently, as a project
manager, I specialize in strategic planning and combine it with a natural
ability to engage critical stakeholders—resulting in on-time and under-budget
delivery. This role would help me use those skills to work on a mission I’m
passionate about. I am determined to use these skills to help your
organization guarantee our community has access to affordable, nutritious food
and information to make healthy decisions. In the next five or so years, I
would love to take on additional responsibility and be in a decision-making
role to drive the mission beyond our community and support even more families
in gaining access to nutritious food options.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “What Are Your Career Aspirations?” in an
Interview_

## 40\.

What’s your dream job?

Along similar lines, the interviewer wants to uncover whether this position is
really in line with your ultimate career goals. While “an NBA star” might get
you a few laughs, a better bet is to talk about your goals and ambitions—and
why this job will get you closer to them.

**_Read More:_** _The Secret Formula to Answering “What's Your Dream Job?” in
an Interview_

## 41\.

What other companies are you interviewing with?

Companies might ask you who else you’re interviewing with for a few reasons.
Maybe they want to see how serious you are about this role and team (or even
this field) or they’re trying to find out who they’re competing with to hire
you. On one hand, you want to express your enthusiasm for this job, but at the
same time, you don’t want to give the company any more leverage than it
already has by telling them there’s no one else in the running. Depending on
where you are in your search, you can talk about applying to or interviewing
for a few roles that have XYZ in common—then mention how and why _this_ role
seems like a particularly good fit.

### **Possible answer to “What other companies are you interviewing with?”**

_“I’m interviewing with a few companies for a range of positions, but they all
come down to delivering an excellent customer experience. I wanted to keep an
open mind about how to best achieve that goal, but so far it seems that this
role will really allow me to focus all of my energy on customer experience and
retention, which I find very appealing.”_

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “What Other Companies Are You Interviewing
With?”_

## 42\.

What makes you unique?

“They genuinely want to know the answer,” Dea promises. Give them a reason to
pick you over other similar candidates. The key is to keep your answer
relevant to the role you’re applying to. So the fact that you can run a six-
minute mile or crush a trivia challenge might not help you get the job (but
hey, it depends on the job!). Use this opportunity to tell them something that
would give you an edge over your competition for _this_ position. To figure
out what that is, you can ask some former colleagues, think back to patterns
you’ve seen in feedback you get, or try to distill why people tend to turn to
you. Focus on one or two things and don’t forget to back up whatever you say
with evidence.

### **Possible answer to “What makes you unique?”**

_“I basically taught myself animation from scratch. I was immediately drawn to
it in college, and with the limited resources available to me, I decided to
take matters into my own hands—and that’s the approach I take in all aspects
of my work as a video editor. I don’t just wait around for things to happen,
and when I can, I’m always eager to step in and take on new projects, pick up
new skills, or brainstorm new ideas.”_

**_Read More:_** _A Simple Way to Answer “What Makes You Unique?” in Your Job
Search (Plus, Examples!)_

## 43\.

What should I know that’s not on your resume?

It’s a good sign if a recruiter or hiring manager is interested in _more_ than
just what’s on your resume. It probably means they looked at your resume,
think you might be a good fit for the role, and want to know more about you.
To make this wide-open question a little more manageable, try talking about a
positive trait, a story or detail that reveals a little more about you and
your experience, or a mission or goal that makes you excited about this role
or company.

### **Possible answer to “What should I know that’s not on your resume?”**

_“Well, one thing you won’t find on my resume: the time I had to administer
emergency CPR. Last year, I was at the lake when I saw a young girl who looked
like she was drowning. I was a lifeguard in high school, so I swam out,
brought her to shore, and gave her CPR. Although this was—hopefully—a one-time
event, I’ve always been able to stay calm during stressful situations, figure
out a solution, and then act. As your account manager, I’d use this trait to
quickly and effectively resolve issues both within the team and externally.
After all, obstacles are inevitable, especially in a startup environment. And
if anyone needs CPR at the office beach party, well, I’m your woman.”_

**_Read More:_** _The Right Way to Answer “What Should I Know That’s Not on
Your Resume?”_

## 44\.

What would your first few months look like in this role?

Your potential future boss (or whoever else has asked you this question) wants
to know that you’ve done your research, given some thought to how you’d get
started, and would be able to take initiative if hired. (In some interviews,
you might even get the more specific, “What would your first 30, 60, or 90
days look like in this role?”) So think about what information and aspects of
the company and team you’d need to familiarize yourself with and which
colleagues you’d want to sit down and talk to. You can also suggest one
possible starter project to show you’d be ready to hit the ground running and
contribute early on. This won’t necessarily be the thing you do first if you
do get the job, but a good answer shows that you’re thoughtful and that you
care.

### **Possible answer to “What would your first few months look like in this
role?”**

_“It’s been exciting to hear about some of the new initiatives the company has
started in our previous conversations—like the database project and the
company-wide sync, but I know there’s still a lot for me to learn. The first
thing I’d do is line up meetings with the stakeholders involved in the
projects I’d be tackling to help me figure out what I don’t know and then go
from there. Hopping into a database project halfway through can be tricky, but
I’m confident that once I know what all the stakeholders are looking for, I’ll
be able to efficiently plot out our next steps and set appropriate deadlines.
From there, I’ll be focused on hitting the milestones that I’ve set for the
team.”_

**_Read More:_** _The 30-60-90 Day Plan: Your Secret Weapon for New Job
Success_

## 45\.

What are your salary expectations?

The number one rule of answering this question is: Figure out your salary
requirements ahead of time. Do your research on what similar roles pay by
using sites like PayScale and reaching out to your network. Be sure to take
your experience, education, skills, and personal needs into account, too! From
there, Muse career coach Jennifer Fink suggests choosing from one of three
strategies:

  * Give a salary range: But keep the bottom of your stated range toward the mid-to-high point of what you’re actually hoping for, Fink says.
  * Flip the question: Try something like “That's a great question—it would be helpful if you could share what the range is for this role,” Fink says.
  * Delay answering: Tell your interviewer that you’d like to learn more about the role or the rest of the compensation package before discussing pay.

(And here’s some more info on responding to a question about your salary
requirements on an application form.)

### **Possible answer to “What are your salary expectations?”**

_“Taking into account my experience and Excel certifications, which you
mentioned earlier would be very helpful to the team, I’m looking for somewhere
between $42,000 and $46,000 annually for this role. But for me, benefits
definitely matter as well. Your free on-site gym, the commuter benefits, and
other perks could definitely allow me to be a bit flexible with salary.”_

**_Read More:  _** _3 Strategies for Answering “What Are Your Salary
Expectations?” in an Interview_

## 46\.

What do you think we could do better or differently?

This question can really do a number on you. How do you give a meaty answer
without insulting the company or, worse, the person you’re speaking with? Well
first, take a deep breath. Then start your response with something positive
about the company or specific product you’ve been asked to discuss. When
you’re ready to give your constructive feedback, give some background on the
perspective you’re bringing to the table and explain why you’d make the change
you’re suggesting (ideally based on some past experience or other evidence).
And if you end with a question, you can show them you’re curious about the
company or product and open to other points of view. Try: “Did you consider
that approach here? I’d love to know more about your process.”

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer the “How Would You Improve Our Company?”
Interview Question Without Bashing Anyone_

## 47\.

When can you start?

Your goal here should be to set realistic expectations that will work for both
you and the company. What exactly that sounds like will depend on your
specific situation. If you’re ready to start immediately—if you’re unemployed,
for example—you could offer to start within the week. But if you need to give
notice to your current employer, don’t be afraid to say so; people will
understand and respect that you plan to wrap things up right. It’s also
legitimate to want to take a break between jobs, though you might want to say
you have “previously scheduled commitments to attend to” and try to be
flexible if they really need someone to start a bit sooner.

### **Possible answer to “When can you start?”**

_“I am excited for the opportunity to join your team. I have several projects
to wrap up in my current role at [Company]. I plan to give them two weeks’
notice to make a smooth transition for my coworkers and will be happy to come
onboard with the team here after that time.”_

**_Read More:_** _4 Ways to Answer the Interview Question “When Can You
Start?”_

## 48\.

Are you willing to relocate?

While this may sound like a simple yes-or-no question, it’s often a little bit
more complicated than that. The simplest scenario is one where you’re totally
open to moving and would be willing to do so for this opportunity. But if the
answer is no, or at least not right now, you can reiterate your enthusiasm for
the role, briefly explain why you can’t move at this time, and offer an
alternative, like working remotely or out of a local office. Sometimes it’s
not as clear-cut, and that’s OK. You can say you prefer to stay put for xyz
reasons, but would be willing to consider relocating for the right
opportunity.

### **Possible answer to “Are you willing to relocate?”**

_“I do love living in Raleigh and would prefer to stay here. However, for the
right opportunity I’d be willing to consider relocating if necessary.”_

**_Read More:_** _The Best Responses to “Are You Willing to Relocate?”
Depending on Your Situation_

## 49\.

How many tennis balls can you fit into a limousine?

1,000? 10,000? 100,000? Seriously? Well, seriously, you might get asked brain-
teaser questions like these, especially in quantitative jobs. But remember
that the interviewer doesn’t necessarily want an exact number—they want to
make sure that you understand what’s being asked of you, and that you can set
into motion a systematic and logical way to respond. So take a deep breath and
start thinking through the math. (Yes, it’s OK to ask for a pen and paper!)

**_Read More:_** _9 Steps to Solving an Impossible Brain Teaser in a Tech
Interview (Without Breaking a Sweat)_

## 50\.

If you were an animal, which one would you want to be?

Seemingly random personality-test type questions like these come up in
interviews because hiring managers want to see how you can think on your feet.
There’s no wrong answer here, but you’ll immediately gain bonus points if your
answer helps you share your strengths or personality or connect with the
hiring manager. Pro tip: Come up with a stalling tactic to buy yourself some
thinking time, such as saying, “Now, that is a great question. I think I would
have to say…”

**_Read More:_** _4 Steps for Answering Off-the-Wall Interview Questions_

## 51\.

Sell me this pen.

If you’re interviewing for a sales job, your interviewer might put you on the
spot to sell them a pen sitting on the table, or a legal pad, or a water
bottle, or just _something_. The main thing they’re testing you for? How you
handle a high-pressure situation. So try to stay calm and confident and use
your body language—making eye contact, sitting up straight, and more—to convey
that you can handle this. Make sure you listen, understand your “customer’s”
needs, get specific about the item’s features and benefits, and end strong—as
though you were truly closing a deal.

**_Read More:_** _4 Tips for Responding to "Sell Me This Pen" in an Interview_

## 52\.

Is there anything else you’d like us to know?

Just when you thought you were done, your interviewer asks you this open-ended
doozy. Don’t panic—it’s not a trick question! You can use this as an
opportunity to close out the meeting on a high note in one of two ways, Zhang
says. First, if there really is something relevant that you haven’t had a
chance to mention, do it now. Otherwise, you can _briefly_ summarize your
qualifications. For example, Zhang says, you could say: “I think we’ve covered
most of it, but just to summarize, it sounds like you’re looking for someone
who can really hit the ground running. And with my previous experience
[enumerate experience here], I think I’d be a great fit.”

**_Read More:_** _How to Answer “Is There Anything Else You’d Like Us to
Know?”_

## 53\.

Do you have any questions for us?

You probably already know that an interview isn’t just a chance for a hiring
manager to grill you—it’s an opportunity to sniff out whether a job is the
right fit from your perspective. What do you want to know about the position?
The company? The department? The team? You’ll cover a lot of this in the
actual interview, so have a few less-common questions ready to go. We
especially like questions targeted to the interviewer (“What's your favorite
part about working here?”) or the company’s growth (“What can you tell me
about your new products or plans for growth?”) If you’re interviewing for a
remote role, there are some specific questions you might want to ask related
to that.

**_Read More:_** _57 Smart Questions to Ask in a Job Interview in 2022_

##

Bonus questions

Looking for more interview questions? Check out these lists of questions (and
example answers!) for different types of interviews.

  * Behavioral interview questions
  * Phone interview questions
  * Remote interview questions
  * Second interview questions
  * COVID-related interview questions
  * Diversity and inclusion interview questions
  * Emotional intelligence interview questions
  * Internship interview questions
  * Manager interview questions
  * Account management interview questions
  * Accounting interview questions
  * Administrative assistant interview questions
  * Brand management interview questions
  * Customer service interview questions
  * Data science interview questions
  * Digital marketing interview questions
  * Financial analyst interview questions
  * IT interview questions
  * Nursing interview questions
  * Product marketing interview questions
  * Project management interview questions
  * Retail interview questions
  * Sales interview questions
  * Software engineering interview questions
  * Teaching interview questions

##

Want even _more_ advice for answering common interview questions?

Click through for more tips and examples!

  1. Tell me about yourself.
  2. Walk me through your resume. 
  3. How did you hear about this position? 
  4. Why do you want to work at this company? 
  5. Why do you want this job? 
  6. Why should we hire you? 
  7. What can you bring to the company? 
  8. What are your greatest strengths? 
  9. What do you consider to be your weaknesses?
  10. What is your greatest professional achievement? 
  11. Tell me about a challenge or conflict you’ve faced at work, and how you dealt with it. 
  12. Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership skills. 
  13. What’s a time you disagreed with a decision that was made at work? 
  14. Tell me about a time you made a mistake. 
  15. Tell me about a time you failed. 
  16. Why are you leaving your current job? 
  17. Why were you fired? 
  18. Why was there a gap in your employment?
  19. Can you explain why you changed career paths? 
  20. What’s your current salary? 
  21. What do you like least about your job? 
  22. What are you looking for in a new position? 
  23. What type of work environment do you prefer? 
  24. What’s your work style? 
  25. What’s your management style?
  26. How would your boss and coworkers describe you? 
  27. How do you deal with pressure or stressful situations?
  28. What do you like to do outside of work? 
  29. Are you planning on having children? 
  30. How do you stay organized? 
  31. How do you prioritize your work? 
  32. What are you passionate about? 
  33. What motivates you? 
  34. What are your pet peeves?
  35. How do you like to be managed? 
  36. Do you consider yourself successful? 
  37. Where do you see yourself in five years?
  38. How do you plan to achieve your career goals? 
  39. What are your career aspirations? 
  40. What’s your dream job? 
  41. What other companies are you interviewing with? 
  42. What makes you unique? 
  43. What should I know that’s not on your resume? 
  44. What would your first few months look like in this role? 
  45. What are your salary expectations? 
  46. What do you think we could do better or differently? 
  47. When can you start?
  48. Are you willing to relocate? 
  49. How many tennis balls can you fit into a limousine? 
  50. If you were an animal, which one would you want to be? 
  51. Sell me this pen.
  52. Is there anything else you’d like us to know. 
  53. Do you have any questions for us?

The Muse is a values-based careers site that helps people navigate every
aspect of their careers and search for jobs at companies whose people,
benefits, and values align with their unique professional needs. The Muse
offers expert advice, job opportunities, a peek behind the scenes at companies
hiring now, and career coaching services. The current team of writers and
editors behind The Muse’s advice section includes Regina Borsellino, Brooke
Katz, Rebeca Piccardo, Devin Tomb, and Stav Ziv—and over the years has
included many other talented staffers! You can also find The Muse on Facebook,
Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, TikTok, and Flipboard.

More from The Muse Editors

## Hot Jobs on The Muse

sales Jobs

marketing Jobs

product Jobs

software engineering Jobs

Explore All Jobs

The Muse LogoA logo with "the muse" in white text.

The Muse LogoA logo with "the muse" in white text.

© 2023 Daily Muse Inc.

About The Muse

  * About Us
  * Careers
  * FAQs
  * Contact Us
  * Search Jobs
  * Browse Companies
  * Terms of Use
  * Privacy Policy

Popular Jobs

  * New York Jobs
  * San Francisco Jobs
  * Seattle Jobs
  * Engineering Jobs
  * Marketing Jobs
  * Information Technology Jobs
  * Salaries

Get Involved

  * For Employers
  * For Partners
  * The Muse Book: The New Rules of Work
  * Podcast: The New Rules of Work
  * For Career Coaches
  * Send Feedback About The Muse
  * Tell A Friend

Join The Conversation

  * Facebook
  * LinkedIn
  * Twitter
  * Pinterest
  * Instagram

