## Software Engineer (Remote)

Remote

Engineering /

Full Time - Remote

/ Remote

Apply for this job

 **About Raptor Maps**

Solar power is the largest source of new energy in the world. Raptor Maps is a
fast-growing, venture-backed, MIT-born climate tech startup that is building
software to enable the solar energy industry to scale. Parties across the
entire solar lifecycle use Raptor Maps’ data model to manage ever growing
utility-scale solar portfolios. We are an industry leader with hundreds of
customers, including owners, builders, operators, and aerial service
providers, across over 45 countries with 200+ million solar panels under
management. Our software platform is essential in the fight against climate
change.

  

We’re looking for talented software engineers with a passion for technology to
join our software engineering team.  You’ll have the opportunity to work on
full stack development, mobile applications, and data/ML engineering projects.
You’ll play a critical role in building software that empowers owners and
operators of solar farms around the world. Our engineers collaborate with
product managers, designers, and other engineers to define features and
technical roadmaps.

### Responsibilities

    * Design, build, test, deploy, and maintain full stackand mobile software including React Clients, React Native Mobile Applications and Python APIs
    * Utilize ETL frameworks to create and enhance datasets
    * Support the integration of ML models and algorithms into production pipelines
    * Contribute to individual and team projects by managing priorities, deadlines, and deliverables
    * Support your team by improving team tools and processes
    * Enhance squadefficiency and capabilities through daily collaboration along with mentorshipopportunities
    * Prepare and participate in software design discussions and code reviews
    * Communicate and problem solve with various stakeholders such as customer facing teams, product management, and leadership

### Qualifications

    * **Intellectual curiosity** \- You love learning new things fast and staying up on technology. You quickly become interested and experiment. You ask silly questions by nature.
    *  **Intelligence** \- You can learn anything if you put your mind to it. You’ve demonstrated excellence in diverse fields or interests and can wear many hats.
    *  **Drive** \- You are highly self-motivated and enjoy making an impact. You’re focused, resourceful, and enjoy working alongside a driven team. 
    * 1+ years of professional experience in software development using general purpose languages (e.g. Python, Java, Node, Ruby, C++, etc.)
    * Experience with modern web development and data modeling
    * Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, similar technical field of study, or equivalent practical experience.
    *  **Must be primarily located in the contiguous US**
    *  **Must be authorized to work in the US**

 **All Raptor Maps Team Members Have:**

Complete ownership and accountability over their role and success in the team.

Transparency into the operations of the rest of the company and are expected
to be transparent and communicate honestly and effectively.

A sense of urgency. We are tackling a global problem, working in a fast-paced
industry, and building a once in a lifetime company at Raptor Maps.

  

 **Benefits**

Raptor Maps is a remote-first company with employees across the country and
headquarters at Greentown Labs in Boston, MA. Team members are free to work
anywhere in the lower 48 states. A few remote benefits include:

\- Paid travel for in-person team trips

\- Healthcare with dental and vision options

\- Unlimited vacation policy

\- 401(k)

\- Desk budget

\- Monthly remote social events and plenty of DoorDash credit

\- Amazing team members that tend to love memes, pets, solar, and being active

  

There’s no such thing as a ‘perfect’ candidate. However you identify, and
whatever your background, we encourage you to apply if you’re excited about
this role and the future of solar.

  

Check out details on our Series B!

Apply for this job

Raptor Maps Home Page

Jobs powered by

