The newest episode in BetterUp and Microsoft's dynamic experience: actor,
director, and screenwriter, Michaela Coel.

EN - US

English US  Deutsch English GB Français

  * For Business 

How it works

Platform Overview

Transform your enterprise with the scalable mindsets, skills, & behavior
change that drive performance.

Integrations

Explore how BetterUp connects to your core business systems.

Products

Lead

Build leaders that accelerate team performance and engagement.

Connect™beta

Unlock performance potential at scale with AI-powered curated growth journeys.

Care™

Build resilience, well-being and agility to drive performance across your
entire enterprise.

Solutions

Sales Performance

Transform your business, starting with your sales leaders.

Executive

Unlock business impact from the top with executive coaching.

Diversity & Inclusion

Foster a culture of inclusion and belonging.

Government

Accelerate the performance and potential of your agencies and employees.

Customers

Case Studies

See how innovative organizations use BetterUp to build a thriving workforce.

Why BetterUp?

Discover how BetterUp measurably impacts key business outcomes for
organizations like yours.

A demo is the first step to transforming your business. Meet with us to
develop a plan for attaining your goals.

  * For Individuals 
  * Resources 

Library

Best practices, research, and tools to fuel individual and business growth.

Events

View on-demand BetterUp events and learn about upcoming live discussions.

Blog

The latest insights and ideas for building a high-performing workplace.

Research

Innovative research featured in peer-reviewed journals, press, and more.

  * About 

About Us

We're on a mission to help everyone live with clarity, purpose, and passion.

Careers

Join us and create impactful change.

News & Press

Read the buzz about BetterUp.

Leadership Team

Meet the leadership that's passionate about empowering your workforce.

  * Login

  * EN - US ____

EN - US

English US Deutsch English GB Français

  * For Business ____

For Business

How it works

Platform Overview

Transform your enterprise with the scalable mindsets, skills, & behavior
change that drive performance.

Integrations

Explore how BetterUp connects to your core business systems.

Products

Lead

Build leaders that accelerate team performance and engagement.

Connect™ beta

Unlock performance potential at scale with AI-powered curated growth journeys.

Care™

Build resilience, well-being and agility to drive performance across your
entire enterprise.

Solutions

Sales Performance

Transform your business, starting with your sales leaders.

Executive

Unlock business impact from the top with executive coaching.

Diversity & Inclusion

Foster a culture of inclusion and belonging.

Government

Accelerate the performance and potential of your agencies and employees.

Customers

Case Studies

See how innovative organizations use BetterUp to build a thriving workforce.

Why BetterUp?

Discover how BetterUp measurably impacts key business outcomes for
organizations like yours.

  * For Individuals 
  * Resources ____

Resources

Library

Best practices, research, and tools to fuel individual and business growth.

Events

View on-demand BetterUp events and learn about upcoming live discussions.

Blog

The latest insights and ideas for building a high-performing workplace.

Research

Innovative research featured in peer-reviewed journals, press, and more.

  * About ____

About

About Us

We're on a mission to help everyone live with clarity, purpose, and passion.

Careers

Join us and create impactful change.

News & Press

Read the buzz about BetterUp.

Leadership Team

Meet the leadership that's passionate about empowering your workforce.

Login

Blog  __ Job Search

# 12 resume objective examples and tips for writing one

By Erin Eatough, PhD

August 8, 2023 \- 13 min read

Share this article

Understand Yourself Better:

Big 5 Personality Test

Learn how to leverage your natural strengths to determine your next steps and
meet your goals faster.  Take the 5-min quiz

Understand Yourself Better:

Big 5 Personality Test

Learn how to leverage your natural strengths to determine your next steps and
meet your goals faster.  Take the 5-min quiz

Invest in yourself today

**Jump to section**

How to write a career objective for a resume

4 career objective examples for beginners

4 career objective examples for experienced professionals

4 objective examples for student resumes

Land the interview in just a few sentences

Your resume is one of the first materials your potential employer sees from
you. It needs to catch their eye and attract interest — at least enough to get
you in the door for an interview.

As a job seeker, one great way to win over employers and become a top
candidate is to write a strong career statement.

A career statement, also known as your summary or objective, is your personal
elevator pitch. It’s a few brief sentences at the top of your resume clearly
explaining what your career goals are and how this job will help you get
there.

An objective statement is a great addition to your resume, particularly if
you’re a new graduate or don’t have a lot of experience. If you aren’t sure
where to begin, here are a few career objective examples to get you started.

## How to write a career objective for a resume

The average recruiter only looks at a resume for about seven seconds, meaning
they don’t read every bullet point in depth. You need to wow them from the
beginning and encourage them to learn more about you, your experience, and
your relevant skills.

That’s where the career objective comes into play. Usually at the top of your
resume, a recruiter should be able to read your statement in just a few
seconds and have a clear picture of what you’d bring to the role you’re
applying for. It should emphasize the unique skills, credentials, and
experience that make you the ideal candidate, all in just a few seconds.

But keep in mind that some recruiters advise against including summaries and
objectives. If your work experience already speaks for itself, or you have
lots of skills and certifications, it might be best to use that space for
something other than an objective statement. Objectives and summaries are most
helpful when you have something to say — like what kind of environment you’re
looking for — that you can’t include elsewhere.

If you do want to learn how to write an objective for a resume, start by
creating a custom statement for every job application. It might be tempting to
write a generic objective that suits any job in your industry, especially if
you’re applying for the same position with multiple companies. But saying you
want to work as a “sales representative at XYZ Company” makes for a stronger
statement than “seeking a sales position” because it shows specificity and
drive. And a tailored statement is more likely to catch a recruiter’s eye.

Here are a few more essential guidelines for writing your career objective:

### 1\. Write it in third-person singular

Writing in the third person is the standard for resume objective statements.
First-person pronouns like I, me, and my come across as personal and informal
to a reader, and your resume should be as professional as possible.

To avoid the first person, your statement doesn’t have to be a complete
sentence. Instead of saying “I’m looking for a job in the front office,” your
career objective could read, “Seeking a role as an administrative assistant
with [company name].” That way, it’s more formal and you have more space to
explain your career path.

### 2\. Emphasize your strongest traits

Your resume and cover letter aim to prove that you’re a top candidate for the
job. And to do this, they need to mention the strengths you bring as an
employee. Do you have years of specialized experience? Exceptional
communication skills? Put those qualities front and center in your career
objective. The goal is to show what makes you stand out.

If you’re unsure which traits to highlight, scan the job description and look
for keywords that apply to you. If the employer asks for someone self-
motivated and results-driven, use those words to describe yourself. Just make
sure you aren’t stretching the truth at this stage. Start your professional
relationship on the basis of trust.

### 3\. Add a few skills

You can tell a recruiter that you’re hardworking, driven, or experienced at a
job. But proving those facts with specific examples is much more effective. If
you want to focus your resume objective example on your abilities, use the
space to explain how you’ve used them well in the past.

Someone applying for a marketing manager position might emphasize a successful
social media project with metrics that show its success. And a prospective
healthcare professional might point out their certifications or knowledge of
regulatory practices for their role. Remember, the best skills for your resume
are specific to the job you want, so use the job posting to guide your
selections.

### 4\. Explain your goals for yourself and the company

If you’ve ever looked up sample resume objectives, you may have noticed that
many start with “Seeking a position” or include “expand their skillset” as
part of the sentence.

But these statements are vague and obvious. If you’re applying for a job, the
recruiter or hiring manager already knows you’re looking for a job. “Seeking a
position” tells the recruiter how they can help you, not how you can help
them.

Instead, tell a company what you bring to the table and how you can help them
reach their goals. While it’s still fine to mention your career growth
objectives — a recent grad might state that the job will launch their career
in a certain field — explaining how you’ll benefit the company by working for
them is even more important.

### 5\. Keep it brief

Your career objective needs to be short and sweet to save room for more
important information. Try to limit the entire statement to two or three
lines. Pack those sentences with strong action verbs and job-specific
qualities, and your resume will stand out from your fellow applicants.

## 4 career objective examples for beginners

Career objective statements are particularly important for beginners seeking
entry-level positions. At this point in your career, you may not have enough
work experience to fill out your resume, or at least not as far back as a
resume should go.

The career objective statement on your resume should highlight your strengths
no matter where you are in your career, persuading the company to give you a
chance. Here are a few examples:

  * Organized and motivated employee with superior [skill] and [skill]. Seeking to join [company] as a [position] to help enhance [function].

  * Certified [position] looking to join [company] as a part of the [department] team. Hardworking individual with [skill], [skill], and [skill].

  * Detail-oriented individual seeking to help [company] achieve its goals as a [position]. Excellent at [skill] and dedicated to delivering top-quality [function]. 

  * [Position] certified in [skill] and [skill], looking to help [company] increase [goal metric]. Excellent [position] who can collaborate with large teams to [achieve goal]. 

## 4 career objective examples for experienced professionals

Whether you’re climbing the corporate ladder after years with the same company
or reentering the applicant pool for a career change, seasoned employees can
still use objective statements. The key is to point to your work history. Here
are a few professional summary examples for resumes of workers with
professional experience under their belt:

  * Experienced [position] looking to help [company] provide excellent customer service. Over [number] years of experience at [company], demonstrating excellent [skill], [skill], and [skill]. 

  * [Position] with [number] years of experience looking to help [company] improve its [function]. Diligent and detail-oriented professional with extensive experience with [hard skill]. 

  * Hardworking [position] with [number] years of experience at a [type of environment]. Seeking to bring [skills] and experience to benefit [company] in the [department].

  * Dedicated [position] with over [number] years of experience looking to move into [new field]. [Graduate degree title] from [school name]. Excellent [skill], [skill], and [skill].

## 4 objective examples for student resumes

Students seeking their first post-grad job may feel like their experience
isn’t good enough to discuss. But as a student, you can still highlight your
talent and skills with a career objective statement.

Instead of work history, emphasize assets like your GPA, degree title and
expected graduation date, and skills you’ve learned in any apprenticeships or
internships. Here are a few examples:

  * Detail-oriented college student at [school] with [GPA]. Graduating in [year] with [degree title]. Looking to use [skills] as a [position] for [company]. 

  * High school student with proven [skills] looking for a [position] at [company]. Proven [skill] as [extracurricular position]. Wishing to use [skills] to [achieve goals].

  * Hardworking recent graduate in [degree] from [school]. Excellent [skills] and [skills]. Experienced in [function], function, and [function] at [company].

  * [Degree] candidate in [subject] from [school] seeking a [position] at [company]. Experience in [function]. Exceptional [skills], [skills], and [skills].

## Land the interview in just a few sentences

As the career objective examples above demonstrate, this statement highlights
your skills and demonstrates how you’d be an asset to your potential
employer’s organization.

Whether you point to your project management experience, human resources
accomplishments, or soft skills you’ve developed throughout your life, a good
objective will make your resume stand out — even if the recruiter only takes a
quick glance. Take your time and craft something that’s true to you. If you
get it right, it could bring your next great job opportunity.

Job Search

Published August 8, 2023

## Erin Eatough, PhD

Director, Labs – Go-to-Market

## Read Next

Consumer

__13 min read | June 14, 2023

## Magna cum laude versus summa cum laude: What’s the difference?

Learn the difference between magna cum laude vs. summa cum laude, whether to
include them on your resume, and other accomplishments you can gain in school.
Read More

SEO

__12 min read | October 14, 2022

## Hunting for a new role? Here are 7 tips for job searching

Looking for help with job searching? You’re not alone. Learn the best job
search tips to stay organized, limit stress, and find the success you deserve.
Read More

Consumer

__14 min read | September 20, 2023

## Get help from a career advisor to map your professional path

Careers are rarely linear. A career advisor can help steer you in the right
direction and build the confidence you need to succeed in a new role. Read
More

Consumer

__12 min read | December 30, 2021

## Why salary negotiation is the next skill you need to master

Salary negotiation may feel intimidating, but it could make a huge difference
in your career. Read this guide and learn how to negotiate like a pro. Read
More

Consumer

__13 min read | October 20, 2022

## Give me a (career) break: what to know before taking time off

Career breaks don’t carry the same stigma as before, but they still come with
some risks. Here’s what you need to know if you’re considering a sabbatical.
Read More

SEO

__13 min read | June 14, 2022

## Heat up your networking with a better cold connect (try these examples)

Learn more about how to cold connect on LinkedIn and how it can heat up your
professional networking skills. Read More

SEO

__11 min read | October 31, 2022

## 5 Tips for reentering the workforce

After an extended leave of absence, reentering the workforce can be scary. But
it doesn’t have to be. Here’s what you need to know. Read More

Consumer

__14 min read | June 30, 2021

## Changing jobs? 23 things to consider when making moves

Thinking about changing jobs? How do you know if it's a good career move? Read
this article for the do's -- and don'ts -- of securing a new role. Read More

Consumer

__13 min read | June 6, 2022

## Undecided between careers? Here’s how to choose one

Deciding what your future career will be doesn’t have to be stressful.
Discover the steps you can take to make a good career choice for you. Read
More

#### Similar Articles

Job Search

## How to write a cover letter for a job: Tips and examples

Well-being

## 12 ambition examples that’ll inspire your goal-setting

Job Search

## Stand out to your hiring panel with a personal value statement

Job Search

## How to message a recruiter on LinkedIn: Tips and examples

Job Search

## Add your expected graduation date to your resume: How to

Job Search

## 7 tips to make your resume stand out and get that job

Job Search

## Functional resume: What is it & how to write one (with examples)

Job Search

## Resume dos and don’ts: 29 tips for writing your best resume

Well-being

## 10 personal achievements examples that can inspire yours

#### Stay connected with BetterUp

________

#### Get our newsletter, event invites, plus product insights and research.

__

###

3100 E 5th Street, Suite 350  
Austin, TX 78702

  * For Business
    * How it works

    * Platform Overview 
    * Integrations 
    * Products

    * Lead 
    * Connect™ beta
    * Care™ 
    * Solutions

    * Sales Performance 
    * Executive 
    * Diversity & Inclusion 
    * Government 
    * Customers

    * Case Studies 
    * Why BetterUp? 
    * For Individuals 
  * Company
    * News and Press 
    * Careers 
    * Leadership Team 
    * Become a BetterUp Coach 
    * Resources

    * Blog 
    * Research 
    * Leadership Training 
    * Business Coaching 
  * Contact Us
    * Contact Support 
    * Contact Sales 
    * Legal Hub 
    * Privacy Policy 
    * Acceptable Use Policy 
    * Trust & Security 
    * Cookie Preferences 

© 2023 BetterUp. All rights reserved

