The newest episode in BetterUp and Microsoft's dynamic experience: actor,
director, and screenwriter, Michaela Coel.

EN - US

English US  Deutsch English GB Français

  * For Business 

How it works

Platform Overview

Transform your enterprise with the scalable mindsets, skills, & behavior
change that drive performance.

Integrations

Explore how BetterUp connects to your core business systems.

Products

Lead

Build leaders that accelerate team performance and engagement.

Connect™beta

Unlock performance potential at scale with AI-powered curated growth journeys.

Care™

Build resilience, well-being and agility to drive performance across your
entire enterprise.

Solutions

Sales Performance

Transform your business, starting with your sales leaders.

Executive

Unlock business impact from the top with executive coaching.

Diversity & Inclusion

Foster a culture of inclusion and belonging.

Government

Accelerate the performance and potential of your agencies and employees.

Customers

Case Studies

See how innovative organizations use BetterUp to build a thriving workforce.

Why BetterUp?

Discover how BetterUp measurably impacts key business outcomes for
organizations like yours.

A demo is the first step to transforming your business. Meet with us to
develop a plan for attaining your goals.

  * For Individuals 
  * Resources 

Library

Best practices, research, and tools to fuel individual and business growth.

Events

View on-demand BetterUp events and learn about upcoming live discussions.

Blog

The latest insights and ideas for building a high-performing workplace.

Research

Innovative research featured in peer-reviewed journals, press, and more.

  * About 

About Us

We're on a mission to help everyone live with clarity, purpose, and passion.

Careers

Join us and create impactful change.

News & Press

Read the buzz about BetterUp.

Leadership Team

Meet the leadership that's passionate about empowering your workforce.

  * Login

  * EN - US ____

EN - US

English US Deutsch English GB Français

  * For Business ____

For Business

How it works

Platform Overview

Transform your enterprise with the scalable mindsets, skills, & behavior
change that drive performance.

Integrations

Explore how BetterUp connects to your core business systems.

Products

Lead

Build leaders that accelerate team performance and engagement.

Connect™ beta

Unlock performance potential at scale with AI-powered curated growth journeys.

Care™

Build resilience, well-being and agility to drive performance across your
entire enterprise.

Solutions

Sales Performance

Transform your business, starting with your sales leaders.

Executive

Unlock business impact from the top with executive coaching.

Diversity & Inclusion

Foster a culture of inclusion and belonging.

Government

Accelerate the performance and potential of your agencies and employees.

Customers

Case Studies

See how innovative organizations use BetterUp to build a thriving workforce.

Why BetterUp?

Discover how BetterUp measurably impacts key business outcomes for
organizations like yours.

  * For Individuals 
  * Resources ____

Resources

Library

Best practices, research, and tools to fuel individual and business growth.

Events

View on-demand BetterUp events and learn about upcoming live discussions.

Blog

The latest insights and ideas for building a high-performing workplace.

Research

Innovative research featured in peer-reviewed journals, press, and more.

  * About ____

About

About Us

We're on a mission to help everyone live with clarity, purpose, and passion.

Careers

Join us and create impactful change.

News & Press

Read the buzz about BetterUp.

Leadership Team

Meet the leadership that's passionate about empowering your workforce.

Login

Blog  __ Job Search

# 17 Best skills to put on your resume to stand out

By Maggie Wooll

September 28, 2023 \- 20 min read

Share this article

Jump to section

Understand Yourself Better:

Big 5 Personality Test

Learn how to leverage your natural strengths to determine your next steps and
meet your goals faster.  Take the 5-min quiz

Understand Yourself Better:

Big 5 Personality Test

Learn how to leverage your natural strengths to determine your next steps and
meet your goals faster.  Take the 5-min quiz

Invest in yourself today

The best resume immediately answers a hiring manager's most pressing question:
“Does this person have the necessary skills?”

You don’t have much time to answer this question, either. Recruiters scan a
resume in just seven seconds to form a first impression and decide whether
they’ll offer an interview.

You must understand the key skills for each job application and express your
proficiency quickly to get ahead. We’ll discuss how to choose skills for a
resume and add them effectively.

## What is a skill?

A professional skill is a knowledge, ability, or competency to perform
specific tasks or respond to challenges. Each skill is either a hard or soft
skill.  
  
Hard skills or technical skills refer to our ability to perform knowledge-
based tasks, like proficiency with a graphic design program.

Interpersonal skills, or soft skills, refer to our interactions with others,
like our ability to tap into our emotional intelligence to manage a team or
our leadership communication skills.

Learning new skills relevant to your job or reskilling to start a new career
is crucial preparation. Every industry and job role requires proficiency in a
wide range of job skills, so it's critical to know the most relevant ones for
your profession and target the company and highlight them in your resume.

### Hard skills

Hard skills are specific, teachable abilities or knowledge that are often
quantifiable and job-specific. Hard skills are gained through experience,
practice, and education. They can be measured straightforwardly by our ability
to perform a technical task. Hard skills are crucial for performing tasks and
functions within a particular field or industry.

Here are a few hard skills you could include on your resume:

  * Foreign languages 
  * Project management 
  * Marketing fluency, like SEO or SEM
  * Computer skills
  * Software management, like CRM
  * Coding languages, like CSS or Python
  * Design, like Photoshop or Illustrator
  * Data analysis 
  * First aid

### Soft skills

Soft skills are non-technical abilities that relate to how individuals
interact with others and navigate social situations. These skills encompass
qualities and attributes that shape one's emotional intelligence,
communication style, and overall interpersonal effectiveness. They inform how
we approach a task or challenge and are unique personal attributes that make
us stand out and succeed as employees and leaders.

Unlike hard skills, soft skills are not job-specific but are universally
valuable across various roles and industries. Soft skills play a critical role
in building strong relationships, collaborating effectively with colleagues,
and enhancing overall workplace dynamics.

Here are a few soft skills you could include on your resume:

  * Problem-solving
  * Communication
  * Teamwork
  * Time management
  * Attention to detail
  * Creativity
  * Collaboration

Soft and hard skills often complement one another. Speaking a foreign language
is a hard skill requiring specific vocabulary, diction, and grammar knowledge.
The communication skills needed to speak this language effectively — knowing
how to work through a concept, tell a story, and keep an audience engaged —
are soft skills.

## How many skills should you add to a resume?

In general you'll want to have 10 to 15 skills listed on you resume. But this
varies depending on your level of experience, the specific job you're applying
for, and the resume format you're using. Here are some general guidelines to
help you determine how many skills to include:

  * **Relevance** : Focus on skills that are directly relevant to the job you're applying for. Tailor your resume by carefully reviewing the job description and identifying the skills and qualifications the employer is seeking. Highlight the skills that align with the job requirements.
  * **Balance** : While it's important to include relevant skills, it's equally important not to overwhelm your resume with an excessively long list of skills. Aim for a balance that showcases your key strengths without making your resume too lengthy.
  * **Prioritization** : Prioritize the most important and sought-after skills. Place the most relevant and impressive skills towards the top of your resume, particularly in the skills section. This ensures that the hiring manager sees your strongest qualifications early in the document.
  * **Quantify** : Where possible, quantify your skills or provide context. For example, if you are proficient in a programming language, you can mention the number of years of experience you have with it or highlight specific projects where you applied that skill.
  * **Quality over quantity** : It's better to emphasize a few highly relevant and valuable skills rather than listing a wide range of skills that may not be as important for the job. Hiring managers often appreciate depth and expertise in key areas.
  * **Consider resume length** : If you have many years of experience and a lot of relevant skills, you may have a longer resume. However, for most applicants, a one-page or two-page resume is typically sufficient. Ensure that your skills section doesn't dominate the entire document.
  * **Group skills** : You can group similar skills together to save space. For example, you might create categories like "Technical Skills" and "Soft Skills" to organize your skills more effectively.
  * **Keep it honest** : Only list skills that you genuinely possess and can confidently discuss in an interview. Exaggerating or fabricating skills can lead to problems during the hiring process.

  

## Types of skills to add to your resume and cover letter

To show your versatility, try including a diverse set of skills on your
resume. Choose a couple from each of the three main categories below:

### 1\. Transferable or functional

This covers your competency to perform an action and apply that skill to
different tasks, job roles, and industries. Your aptitude to perform a
transferable or functional skill is measured by your ability to optimize this
skill to various situations.

Transferable or functional skills include:

  1. Organization and time management skills
  2. Critical thinking and problem-solving skills
  3. Writing 
  4. Project management
  5. Budgeting
  6. Leadership
  7. Active listening and communication
  8. Teamwork
  9. Customer service skills

### 2\. Personal

This covers personality traits, behaviors, or perspectives that guide your
approach to a task or situation. These are likely interpersoanl skills you’ve
developed since childhood through different life experiences.

Personality skills include:

  1. Assertiveness
  2. Patience
  3. Compassion
  4. Diplomacy
  5. Independence
  6. Positivity
  7. Detail-orientedness
  8. Strong emotional intelligence
  9. Ability to perform under pressure
  10. Relationahip-building skills

### 3\. Knowledge-based

This includes a theoretical or practical understanding of a specific task or
process learned through consistent work experience or education. These are
often industry or career-specific and, depending on the expertise required for
a particular position, the most in-demand.

Knowledge-based skills include:

  1. Computer skills, including programming languages, web development, or experience with specific programs like Microsoft Office, Excel, or Quickbooks
  2. Analytical skills, including data analysis, strategy, or economic forecasting
  3. Industry-specific skills, including a content creator with social media apps or marketing skills or a software engineer with specific expertise in Python or HTML

## Top 3 skills to put on a resume

We recommend choosing transferable, knowledge-based, and personal skills
relevant to the job description and the company’s values. When in doubt, you
can’t go wrong using these three top skills on your resume:

### 1\. Managerial skills

If you have any managerial experience, add it to the relevant job description.
Good managers can see the bigger picture, organize their teams around a common
goal, and demonstrate effective communication techniques.

This experience also shows you’re willing to take on more responsibility and
can handle different personalities.

Expressing your management skills might look like this:

  * 15 years of experience developing multiple teams to [name accomplishment]
  * Ideated and managed [project] and increased revenue by [percentage]
  * Certified in Conflict Resolution from [institution's name]

### 2\. Communication skills

Strong communication skills are essential at every professional level. These
skills include actively listening, speaking effectively, observing people and
situations, and empathizing and supporting our co-workers, colleagues, and
managers.

Expressing your communication skills might look like this:

  * Thrives on constructive criticism
  * Four years of public speaking experience
  * Certified in Non-Verbal Communication at [institute name]

### 3\. Computer skills

Expertise in various technologies or the ability to learn new ones are great
hard skills to advertise. These include knowledge of hardware, software, work
platforms, or coding languages.

Computer skills might include:

  * Type 145 words per minute
  * Fluency in CRM and CSM
  * Knowledge of Python, Javascript, and HTML
  * Experience with project management softwares like Monday, ClickUp, and Notion
  * Adobe Photoshop

## 17 of the best skills to add to your resume

In addition to the three above, here are some of the most important skills to
add to your resume skills section. When updating your resume, be sure to
include the most relevant skills for the job you're applying to. Social media
marketing, for instance, is more of a must-have skill across various marketing
roles but fewer project management roles.

### 1\. Conflict resolution

Conflict resolution involves mediating disputes and finding mutually
acceptable solutions. This skill is crucial for maintaining a harmonious work
environment and productive relationships among team members.

### 2\. Adaptability

Adaptability is the ability to adjust to new circumstances and challenges. In
today's rapidly changing world, individuals who can quickly learn and adapt to
new technologies, work processes, or environments are highly valuable.

### 3\. Negotiation

Negotiation skills are essential for reaching agreements that benefit all
parties involved. Whether in salary negotiations or business deals, effective
negotiation can lead to favorable outcomes.

### 4\. Creativity

Creativity involves thinking outside the box to generate innovative ideas and
solutions. It's particularly valuable in roles that require problem-solving
and innovation, such as marketing or product design.

### 5\. Strategic planning

Strategic planning is the process of setting long-term goals and developing a
roadmap to achieve them. This skill is crucial for leaders and managers
responsible for guiding an organization's direction.

### 6\. Public speaking

Public speaking is essential for presentations, pitches, and effective
communication with large audiences. Confidence and clarity in public speaking
can enhance your professional image.

### 7\. Mentoring and coaching

The ability to mentor and coach others in their professional development is
valuable for leadership roles and fostering a positive workplace culture.

### 8\. Crisis management

Crisis management involves responding effectively to unexpected and high-
pressure situations, minimizing damage, and maintaining business continuity.

### 9\. Risk management

Identifying and mitigating risks is vital in fields such as finance,
insurance, and project management to protect against potential losses.

### 10\. Data privacy and security

With increasing concerns about data breaches and privacy, knowledge of data
security measures and compliance with regulations is essential, especially in
IT and healthcare industries.

### 11\. Foreign language proficiency

Proficiency in a foreign language can open up opportunities in international
business, diplomacy, and global organizations, enhancing your marketability.

### 12\. Sales and marketing

Sales and marketing skills involve promoting products or services and
persuading customers to make purchases. These skills are vital in sales and
business development roles.

### 13\. Conflict management

Conflict management focuses on identifying, addressing, and resolving
conflicts within teams or organizations to maintain a productive and
harmonious work environment.

### 14\. Research and data analysis

Strong research and data analysis skills are valuable in fields like market
research, academia, and policy analysis, enabling evidence-based decision-
making.

### 15\. Digital Marketing

Digital marketing skills, including SEO, social media management, and online
advertising, are crucial for businesses looking to expand their online
presence and reach.

### 16\. Problem-solving skills

Problem-solving skills are vital for identifying, analyzing, and creatively
resolving challenges. They enable individuals to make informed decisions, find
innovative solutions, and adapt to changing circumstances.

### 17\. Project management skills

Project management skills involve planning, organizing, and coordinating
resources and teams to achieve specific goals within set constraints.
Effective project managers excel at goal-setting, task breakdown, and timeline
management. They ensure projects stay on track, meet deadlines, and stay
within budget, making them highly sought after across industries.



## How to add skills to your resume

There are endless resume templates to choose from when designing your resume,
and most offer a skills section. We’ve outlined four tips for adding skills to
catch a recruiter's attention with resume skills examples to help you get
started.

### 1\. Choose wisely

Study the company by visiting its website, LinkedIn profile, and other public
sources. What values do they promote? Which team members do they highlight and
why?

Read through the job ad and take note of the responsibilities, job
requirements, and skills listed by the employer. Use this research to choose
skills for your resume. It’s a good idea to list skills the job posting
specifically seeks.

Here’s an example of how to translate a job responsibility into skills when
describing work experience on your resume:

Responsibility: Fact-check, proofread, and edit content for accuracy and
comprehensiveness.

Skill on resume:

  *     * Eight years of copy and content writing experience with brands and PR agencies
    * Wrote objective-oriented, SEO-driven content for brands
    * Versed in workflow apps, Google Office, and grammar platforms

### 2\. Include a skills section

If a hiring manager spends just seven seconds on a resume, make sure yours is
readable. Design the resume to direct the reader's eye to critical
information, and include a skills section close to the start. Use relevant
action verbs to sell your experience and describe your skills from the
beginning.

Don't over-clutter — insufficient white space will deflect the eye rather than
attract it. This section should include bullet points with concise
information.

### 3\. Subtly mention skills in other sections

Sneak skills throughout your resume, including in the summary and work
experience sections. Frequently referencing them will help show the hiring
manager you really do possess the skills.

Here are two examples of a writer's position:

Resume summary with a mixture of transferable and personal skills:

  *     * Curious, creative, and self-motivated journalist and content writer with six years of experience working independently for agencies and publications.

Work experience section with a mixture of technical and interpersonal skills:

Digital Content Writer, [Company name], [time frame]

  *     * Experience in Google Workspace, Surfer SEO, and workflow platforms
    * Responsible for writing 10 1500-word SEO and keyword-driven articles weekly
    * Detail-oriented and personable — never missed a deadline and facilitated feedback calls with clients directly

### 4\. Be specific about your proficiency level

Always be clear about your level of expertise. You’ll likely be asked to
showcase some of your skills in an interview, so it’s best to be upfront.

Here are a few examples:

Languages spoken:

  *     * English, native
    * Spanish, fluent
    * Japanese, intermediate conversation and listening comprehension, beginner written

Tools

  *     * High-level expertise in Python and Java
    * Mid-level expertise in CSS

## Feel confident about your resume

Building a good resume takes a lot of work. You have to read through the job
description and tailor resumes to each post to make sure your profile best
aligns with what the recruiter is looking for.

But the effort is worth it. You've spent your entire career learning and
nurturing new skills — show them off in your resume and you'll be one step
closer to getting the job. You’ve worked hard to get where you are, and
listing the right skills will help hiring managers see that.

Job Search

Published September 28, 2023

## Maggie Wooll

Thought Leader

## Read Next

SEO

__20 min read | July 6, 2023

## How to put babysitting on a resume: 6 skills to highlight

If you’re wondering how to put babysitting on a resume, here’s how. These are
the skills you can include and the best ways to explain your experience. Read
More

SEO

__12 min read | December 30, 2022

## Functional resume: What is it & how to write one (with examples)

A functional resume focuses on skills and qualifications vs. experience. Learn
how to write a functional resume for yourself, with examples. Read More

Consumer

__16 min read | August 18, 2023

## Best work accomplishments to list on your resume (with examples)

Listing accomplishments on your resume can help you stand out from other
candidates. Here’s a list of reasons why you should include them. Read More

SEO

__21 min read | August 30, 2023

## 7 tips to make your resume stand out and get that job

If you need help improving your resume, look no further. Learn how to make
your resume stand out with these 7 tips. Read More

SEO

__17 min read | January 25, 2023

## Resume best practices: how far back should a resume go?

Have lots of work experience and wondering what to include when updating your
resume? We’ll discuss how far back a resume should go. Read More

SEO

__13 min read | September 1, 2022

## Stand out to your hiring panel with a personal value statement

What’s a personal value statement, and why do you need to write one? Learn how
to make your resume stand out to recruiters and hiring managers. Read More

Consumer

__12 min read | September 21, 2023

## Unique skills for resumes to attract attention

Explore 13 unique skills for resumes and curate the perfect CV. Plus, learn
how to choose the right attributes to highlight on your next application. Read
More

Consumer

__18 min read | April 10, 2023

## 3 different types of resumes to suit various scenarios

Catch a potential employer’s eye and improve your chances of getting hired by
knowing when and how to use one of the three different types of resumes. Read
More

Consumer

__18 min read | July 7, 2023

## Resume dos and don’ts: 29 tips for writing your best resume

Discover 28 powerful resume dos and don’ts for crafting an eye-catching
application. Use your resume to go from job seeker to successful candidate.
Read More

#### Similar Articles

Job Search

## Hard skills versus soft skills and which to use on your resume

Job Search

## Unique skills for resumes to attract attention

Job Search

## All eyes on it: How to make a page-turning portfolio

Job Search

## Best work accomplishments to list on your resume (with examples)

Hiring

## What are professional skills, and which should you add to your resume?

Job Search

## 7 tips to make your resume stand out and get that job

Professional Development

## 20 marketing skills professionals should have in 2023

Job Search

## The hard skills examples you should add to your resume

Well-being

## 10 personal achievements examples that can inspire yours

#### Stay connected with BetterUp

________

#### Get our newsletter, event invites, plus product insights and research.

__

###

3100 E 5th Street, Suite 350  
Austin, TX 78702

  * For Business
    * How it works

    * Platform Overview 
    * Integrations 
    * Products

    * Lead 
    * Connect™ beta
    * Care™ 
    * Solutions

    * Sales Performance 
    * Executive 
    * Diversity & Inclusion 
    * Government 
    * Customers

    * Case Studies 
    * Why BetterUp? 
    * For Individuals 
  * Company
    * News and Press 
    * Careers 
    * Leadership Team 
    * Become a BetterUp Coach 
    * Resources

    * Blog 
    * Research 
    * Leadership Training 
    * Business Coaching 
  * Contact Us
    * Contact Support 
    * Contact Sales 
    * Legal Hub 
    * Privacy Policy 
    * Acceptable Use Policy 
    * Trust & Security 
    * Cookie Preferences 

© 2023 BetterUp. All rights reserved

